.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 23:02:38 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\"
.TH _EXIT 2 "1993년 7월 21일" 리눅스 "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
_exit \- 현재 프로세스를 종료시킨다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "void _exit(int " status );
.SH 설명
.BR _exit 는
호출한 프로세스를 즉시 종료시킨다. 이 프로세스의 모든 오픈 파일 디스크립터가
닫힌다; 이 프로세스의 모든 자식 프로세스 부모는 1번 프로세스 init으로 
바뀌고, 이 프로세스의 부모에게 
.B SIGCHLD 
시그널이 전해진다.

.IR status 는
프로세스의 종료 상태값으로 부모 프로세스에게 반환된다. 이는 
.B wait
계열의 함수를 호출하여 알아낼 수 있다.
.SH 반환값
.BR _exit 는
결코 리턴하지 않는다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH 주의
.BR _exit 는
ANSI C
.BR atexit 함수로
등록한 어떤 함수도 호출하지 않고, 표준 입출력 버퍼를 비우지 않는다.
이런 것들을 하기 위해서는 
.BR exit (3)을
사용하라.
.BR exit (3).
.SH 관련 항목
.BR fork (2),
.BR execve (2),
.BR waitpid (2),
.BR wait4 (2),
.BR kill (2),
.BR wait (2),
.BR exit (3)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2000년 4월 14일
