.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 19:42:57 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 21:25:26 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 03:46:05 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH ALARM 2 "1993년 7월 21일" 리눅스 "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
alarm \- 시그널 전달을 위한 알람을 설정한다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned int alarm(unsigned int " seconds );
.fi
.SH 설명
.BR alarm 은 
.IR seconds 초 
후에 프로세스에 SIGALRM 시그널이 전달되도록 설정한다.

만약 
.IR seconds 가 
0이면 
.BR alarm 이 
수행되지 않는다.

어떤 경우에도 이전에 설정된
.BR alarm 은
은 취소된다.
.SH 반환값
.BR alarm 은
이전에 설정된 알람이 시그널을 전달할 때까지 남은 시간을 초 단위의 
숫자로 반환하거나, 이전에 설정된 알람이 없다면 0을 반환한다.
.SH 주의
.BR alarm " 과 " setitimer 는 
같은 타이머를 공유한다; 한 쪽을 호출하면 다른 쪽을 간섭할 것이다.

스케줄링 지연이 임의의 시간 동안 프로세스의 수행을 지연시킬 수도 있다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR setitimer (2), 
.BR signal (2),
.BR sigaction (2), 
.BR gettimeofday (2), 
.BR select (2), 
.BR pause (2),
.BR sleep (3)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2000년 4월 14일
