.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/sys/socket.h, which does not have
.\" any authorship information in it.  It is probably available under the GPL.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.\" Other portions are from the 6.9 (Berkeley) 3/10/91 man page:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 23:05:29 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\" $Id: bind.2,v 1.1.1.1 2002/07/18 10:40:11 hhyoon Exp $
.TH BIND 2 "1998년 10월 3일" "Linux 2.2" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
bind \- 소켓에 이름을 묶는다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int bind(int " sockfd ", struct sockaddr *" my_addr ", socklen_t " addrlen );
.SH 설명
.B bind
는 소켓
.I sockfd
와 로컬 주소
.IR my_addr 를
준다.
.I my_addr
는 long 형
.I addrlen
바이트이다.
전통적으로, 이것은 \(lq이름을 소켓에 할당하기\(rq 라고 불리어진다.
소켓이
.BR socket (2)으로
생성되었을때, 그것은 이름 공간(address family)에 존재하지만 할당된 이름을 
가지고 있는것은 아니다.
.PP
.B SOCK_STREAM
소켓이 연결들을 받기 전에 
.B bind
를 사용하여 로컬 주소를 할당하는 것이 보통 필수적이다.
.BR accept (2)를
참조해라).
.SH 주의
이름 묶기시 사용되는 규칙들은 주소 가족(address families)들마다 다르다.
세부 사항을 위해서 Section 7에 있는 메뉴얼을 참조해라.
.B AF_INET
를 위해서는
.BR ip (7)를,
.B AF_UNIX
를 위해서는 
.BR unix (7)를,
.B AF_APPLETALK
를 위해서는 
.BR ddp (7)를,
.B AF_PACKET
를 위해서는
.BR packet (7)를,
.B AF_X25
를 위해서는 
.BR x25 (7)를
그리고
.B AF_NETLINK
를 위해서는 
.BR netlink (7)를
참고해라.

.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 반환된다. 에러시, \-1이 반환되며, 
.I errno
는 적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EBADF
.I sockfd
가 유효한 기술자가 아니다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
소켓가 이미 묶여져 있다.
이것은 앞으로 바뀔것이다:세부 사항을 볼려면
.I linux/unix/sock.c
를 참고해라.
.TP
.B EACCES
주소가 보호되어 있으며, 사용자는 슈퍼 유저가 아니다. 
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
인자가 소켓이 아니라 파일을 위한 기술자이다.
.PP
다음 에러들은 UNIX 도메인
.RB ( AF_UNIX )소켓들을 
위한 것들이다.:
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I addrlen
가 잘못되거나, 소켓이 
.B AF_UNIX
가족이 아니다.
.TP
.B EROFS
소켓 아이노드가 읽기-전용 파일 시스템에 있다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I my_addr
가 사용자가 접근할수 있는 조소 공간외를 가리키고 있다.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I my_addr
가 너무 길다.
.TP
.B ENOENT
파일이 존재하지 않는다.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
이용할수 있는 커널 메모리가 충분하지 않다.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
경로 접두사 요소가 디렉토리가 아니다.
.TP
.B EACCES
경로 접두사 요소에 대한 검색 허가권이 거부되었다.
.TP
.B ELOOP
너무 많은 상징 연결들을
.IR my_addr 시에
만났다.
.SH 버그
투명한 프록시 옵션들은 기술되지 않았다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, 4.4BSD (
.B bind
함수는 BSD4.2에서 처음 나타났다.) SVr4는 추가적으로 
.BR EADDRNOTAVAIL , 
.BR EADDRINUSE를, 그리고
일반적 에러 조건들인
.B ENOSR 
를, 그리고 Unix-도메인 에러 조건들인
.BR EIO , 
.B EISDIR 
그리고
.B EROFS 
를 문서화 했다.
.SH 주의
.B bind
의 3번째 인자는 실제로 int이다.(그리고 이것은 BSD 4.* 와 libc4, libc5가 
가지고 있는 것이다.)
몇몇 POSIX 들은 현재의 socklen_t 때문에 약간 혼란스럽다.
표준은 아직 채택되지 않았지만, glibc2는 이미 그것을 따르고 있고 또한
socklen_t를 가지고 있다. 
.BR accept (2)를
참고해라.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR accept (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR ip (7),
.BR socket (7)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 7월 2일
