.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (michael@moria.de),
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 19:52:58 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Sun Aug 21 17:40:38 1994 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\"
.TH BRK 2 "1993년 7월 21일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
brk, sbrk \- 데이터 세그먼트 크기를 변경한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int brk(void *" end_data_segment );
.sp
.BI "void *sbrk(ptrdiff_t " increment );
.SH 설명
.BR brk 은 
데이터 세그먼트의 끝을  
.IR end_data_segment 으로 
지정된 값으로 설정한다.
.IR end_datasegment 는 
텍스트 세그먼트의 끝보다 커야 하며 스택의 끝보다 16kB 앞에 있어야 한다.

.BR sbrk 는 
.I increment
바이트만큼 프로그램의 데이터 공간을 증가시킨다.
.BR sbrk 는 
시스템 콜이 아니며, 단지 C 라이브러리 레퍼(wrapper) 함수이다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 
.BR brk 는 
0을 리턴하며, 
.BR sbrk 는 
새로운 영역의 시작을 가리키는 포인터를 리턴한다.
에러시, \-1이 리턴되며, 
.IR errno 는 
.BR ENOMEM 
으로 설정된다.
.SH 호환
BSD 4.3
.BR brk "와 " sbrk 는 
C 표준에 정의되어 있지 않으며 POSIX.1 표준에서도 제외되었다.
(paragraphs B.1.1.1.3과 B.8.3.3 참조하라)
.SH 관련 항목
.BR execve (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR malloc (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 1일
