.\" Written by Ralf Baechle (ralf@waldorf-gmbh.de),
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, 1995 Waldorf GMBH
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 26일
.\"
.TH CACHEFLUSH 2 "27 June 95" "Linux 2.0.32" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
cacheflush \- 명령이나 데이타 캐쉬의 내용을 플러쉬 한다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <asm/cachectl.h>
.sp
.BI "int cacheflush(char *" addr ", int "nbytes ", int "cache ");"
.fi
.SH 설명
.B cacheflush
는 (addr+nbytes-1)까지 주소 범위에서 표시된 캐쉬의 내용을 플러쉬 한다.
캐쉬는 다음 중 하나이다:
.TP
.B ICACHE
명령 캐쉬를 플러쉬 한다.
.TP
.B DCACHE
메모리에게 응답하고, 영향을 받은 유효한 캐쉬 라인을 무효화 시킨다.
.TP
.B BCACHE
.B (ICACHE|DCACHE).
와 같다.
.PP
.SH 반환값
.B cacheflush
는 성공하면 0을 에러시에는 -1을 반환한다. 에러가 발견되면 errno가 에러를 나타낸다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EINVAL
캐쉬 매개 변수가 ICACHE, DCACHE, BCACHE중 하나가 아니다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
주소의 일부나 전체가 (addr+nbytes-1)까지의 범위에 맞지 않는다.
.PP
.SH 버그
현재 결과가 addr와 nbyte 매개 변수를 무시한다. 그래서 항상 모든 캐쉬가 플러쉬된다. 
.SH 주의
이 시스템 호출은 MIPS 기반 시스템에서만 사용 가능하다. 이식이 가능하도록 의도된 프로그램에서는 사용하지 않아야 한다.
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 29일
