.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 22:18:17 1993 by  Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 21 Aug 1994 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>
.\"   Fixed typoes.
.\" Modified 13 Jun 1996 by aeb - Added a warning: . may be outside / tree.
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 03:50:45 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified by Joseph S. Myers <jsm28@cam.ac.uk>, 970821
.\"
.TH CHROOT 2 "1997년 8월 21일" "리눅스 2.0.30" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
chroot \- 루트 디렉토리를 바꾼다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int chroot(const char *" path );
.SH 설명
.BR chroot 는 
.IR path 가 
지정한 곳으로 루트 디렉토리를 바꾼다.
이 디렉토리는 /으로 시작하는 경로 이름이 사용된다.
루트 디렉토리는 현재 프로세스의 모든 자식 프로세스에게 상속된다.

슈퍼유저만이 루트 디렉토리를 바꿀 수 있다.

이 시스템 콜은 현재 작업 디렉토리는 바꾸지 않는다. 그래서 `.'는 
`/'으로 지정된 루트 트리 밖의 위치가 될 수도 있다.

.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며, 
.IR errno 는 
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
파일 시스템에 의존적이며, 다른 에러가 리턴될 수 있다.
일반적인 에러 목록은 다음과 같다:

.TP
.B EPERM
유효 UID가 0이 아니다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR path 가 
접근할 수 없는 메모리 영역을 가리키고 있다.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.IR path 가 
너무 길다.
.TP
.B ENOENT
파일이 존재하지 않는다.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
커널 메모리가 충분치않다.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.IR path 가 
디렉토리가 아니다.
.TP
.B EACCES
허가가 거부되었다.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.IR path 를 
찾아갈 때, 너무 많은 심볼릭 링크가 존재한다.
.TP
.B EIO
I/O 에러가 발생했다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, 4.4BSD, X/OPEN. 이 함수는 POSIX.1의 일부가 아니다.
SVr4 문서는 EINTR, ENOLINK 그리고 EMULTIHOP 에러 상태들을 추가적으로 기술한다.
X/OPEN은 EIO, ENOMEM 또는 EFAULT 에러 상태를 문서화하지 않았다.
이 시스템 콜은 X/OPNE의 유산물로서 알려져있다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR chdir (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 1일
