.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Markus Kuhn.
.\"
.\" [This version merged from two independently written pages - aeb]
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" 1996-04-12  Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" 1996-04-13  Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 26일
.\"
.TH FDATASYNC 2 "1996년 4월 13일" "리눅스 1.3.86" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
fdatasync \- 파일의 디스크에 있는 in-core데이타를 동기화한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B #ifdef _POSIX_SYNCHRONIZED_IO
.sp
.BI "int fdatasync(int " fd );
.sp
.B #endif
.SH 설명
.B fdatasync
는 시스템 호출이 반환되기 전에 디스크에서 파일의 모든 데이파버퍼를 플러쉬한다.
.B fsync
와 비슷하지만, 액세스시간과 같은 메타데이타 업데이트를 요구하진 않는다.

액세스 데이타베이스나 로그파일이 작은 데이타 조각을 기록하고, 곧이어 쓰여진 데이
타을 확인하기 위해
.B fsync
를 호출하는 응용프로그램은 하드디스크에 물리적으로 저장된다. 운나쁘게도,
.B fsync
가 상상 두개의 기록장치를 초기화 할 것이다: 하나는 새로 기록된 데이타를 위함이고,
또다른 하나는 inode에 저장된 수정시간을 업데이트하기 위함이다. 수정시간이 트랜젝션 
개념의 한 부분이 아니라면 
.B fdatasync
는 불필요한 디스크기록장치 inode를 피하기 위해 사용된다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0을 반환한다. 실패시, \-1을 반환하고, 
.I errno
는 적절히 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
는 기록을 위해 열린 유효 파일 디스크립터이다.
.TP
.BR EROFS ", " EINVAL
.I fd
는 동기화를 지원하지 않는 특별한 파일을 경계짓는다.is bound to a special file which does not support synchronization.
.TP
.B EIO
에러가 동기화하는 동안 발생했다.
.SH 버그
현재(리눅스 2.0.23)
.B fdatasync
는
.BR fsync 
와 같다.
.SH 호환
POSIX1b (formerly POSIX.4)
.SH 관련 항목
.BR fsync (2),
B.O. Gallmeister, POSIX.4, O'Reilly, pp. 220-223 and 343.
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 26일
