.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:26:07 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Fri Dec 11 17:57:27 1998 by Jamie Lokier <jamie@imbolc.ucc.ie>
.\"
.TH FLOCK 2 "1998년 12월 11일" 리눅스 "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
flock \- 열려진 파일에 권고(advisory) 잠금을 적용하거나 제거한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sys/file.h>
.sp
.BR "int flock(int " fd ", int " operation )
.SH 설명
열려진 파일에 권고 잠금을 적용하거나 제거한다.
파일은 
.IR fd 
로 지정된다.
유효한 연산은 다음과 같다:
.RS
.sp
.TP 1.0i
LOCK_SH
공유(shared) 잠금. 한개 이상의 프로세스들은 주어진 시간에 주어진 파일에 대한
공유 잠금을 할수 있다.
.TP
LOCK_EX
배타(exclusive) 잠금. 단지 한개의 프로세스만이 주어진 시간에 주어진 파일에 
대해 배타 잠금을 할수 있다.
.TP
LOCK_UN
잠금을 푼다.
.TP
LOCK_NB
잠금일 때 블럭하지 않는다. 
다른 연산과 함께 
.IR or 에 
의해 지정된다.
.sp
.RE

한 파일에 동시에 공유 잠금과 배타 잠금을 할 수 없다.

파일은 파일 기술자에 대해 잠금이 일어나는 것이 아니라, inode에 대해
잠금이 된다. 그래서, 
.BR dup (2)와
.BR fork (2)는 
중복된 잠금을 만들지 않는다.

.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며, 
.IR errno 는 
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EWOULDBLOCK
파일은 잠겨 있고 
.B LOCK_NB
플래그가 선택되었다.
.SH 호환
4.4BSD (\fRflock(2)\fP은 4.2BSD에서 처음으로 나타났다).
.SH 주의
.BR flock (2)은 
NFS에 있는 파일을 잠금을 하지 않는다. 
대신에 
.BR fcntl (2) 를 
사용해라: 이 시스템 콜은 최신 버전이고 서버가 잠금을 지원한다면
NFS에서도 작동한다.

.PP
.BR flock (2)과
.BR fcntl (2)
잠금은 생성된 프로세스와
.BR dup (2)에
대해서 다른 의미를 갖는다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR open (2),
.BR close (2),
.BR dup (2),
.BR execve (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR fork (2).
.IR /usr/src/linux/Documentation 
안에 
.IR locks.txt 와
.IR mandatory.txt 이 
있다.
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 1일
