.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:22:07 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 21 Aug 1994 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"   Referenced 'clone(2)'.
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 18 Apr 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 1 Nov 1999 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH FORK 2 "1995년 6월 10일" "리눅스 1.2.9" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
fork \- 자식 프로세스를 만든다. 
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B pid_t fork(void);
.SH 설명
.BR fork 는 
부모 프로세스와는 단지 PID와 PPID만이 다른 자식 프로세스를 만든다. 그리고 
자원 사용량을 0으로 맞춘다. 파일 락(lock)과 시그널 펜딩(pending)은 상속받지 않는다.
.PP
리눅스에서,
.BR fork 는
copy-on-wite 페이지들를 사용하여 수행되며, fork의 유일한 단점은 
부모 프로세스의 페이지 테이블을 복사하고 자식 프로세스에 대한 task 구조체를 
만들기 위해 필요한 시간과 메모리이다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 자식 프로세스의 PID가 부모에게 리턴되며, 자식에게는 0이 리턴된다.
실패할 경우, \-1이 부모에게 리턴되며, 자식은 생성되지 않는다. 그리고 
.IR errno 는 
적절한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EAGAIN
부모 프로세스의 페이지 테이블들을 복사하기 위한 충분한 메모리를 할당할 수
없거나 자식 프로세스를 위해 태스크 구조체를 할당할 수 없다.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
.B
메모리가 꽉 차서 필요한 커널 구조체를 할당할 수 없다.
.SH 호환
.B
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR clone (2),
.BR execve (2),
.BR vfork (2),
.BR wait (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 4월 27일
