.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 21 Aug 1994 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Removed note about old libc (pre-4.5.26) translating to 'sync'.
.\" Modified 15 Apr 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Added `see also' section.
.\" Modified 13 Apr 1996 by Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"   Added remarks about fdatasync.
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:27:42 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH FSYNC 2 "1994년 4월 13일" "리눅스 1.3.85" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
fsync \- 파일의 완전한 내부 상태와 디스크상의 상태을 동기화 시킨다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int fsync(int " fd );
.SH 설명
.BR fsync 는
파일의 내부 코어(core) 부분 모두를 디스크로 복사한다.

몇몇 응용 프로그램에서, 
.BR fdatasync 는 
.BR fsync 보다
더 효율적이다.

.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며, 
.IR errno 는 
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EBADF
.IR fd 는 
쓰기위해 연(open) 유효한 파일 기술자가 아니다.
.TP
.BR EROFS ", " EINVAL
.I fd 는 
동기화를 지원하지 않는 특별한 파일이다.
.TP
.B EIO
동기화하는 동안 에러가 발생했다.
.SH 호환
POSIX.1b (이전의 POSIX.4) 
.SH 관련 항목
.BR bdflush (2),
.BR fdatasync (2),
.BR sync (2),
.BR update (8),
.BR sync (8)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 4월 30일
