.\" Copyright (C) 1995 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Written 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@duracef.shout.net>:
.\"   Derived from 'readdir.2'.
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH GETDENTS 2  "1995년 7월 22일" "리눅스 1.3.6" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getdents \- 디렉토리 엔트리를 가져온다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.B #include <linux/types.h>
.B #include <linux/dirent.h>
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall3(int, getdents, uint, fd, struct dirent *, dirp, uint, count);
.sp
.BI "int getdents(unsigned int " fd ", struct dirent *" dirp ", unsigned int " count );
.fi
.SH 설명
.BR getdents 는
.IR fd 가
가리키는 디렉토리에서 여러 
.I dirent
구조체을 읽어와
.IR dirp 가 
가리키는 메모리 공간에 저장한다.
.I count
인자는 메모리 공간의 크기이다.
.PP
.I dirent
구조체는 다음과 같다:
.PP
.RS
.nf
struct dirent
{
    long d_ino;                 /* inode 번호 */
    off_t d_off;                /* 다음 \fIdirent\fP에 대한 옵셋 */
    unsigned short d_reclen;    /* 이 \fIdirent\fP의 길이 */
    char d_name [NAME_MAX+1];   /* (null로 끝나는) 파일 이름 */
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
.IR d_ino 는
inode 번호이다.
.IR d_off 는
현재 디렉토리 시작부터 다음 
.IR dirent 
시작 까지의 옵셋(offset)이다.
.IR d_reclen 는
이
.IR dirent 의
전체 크기이다.
.IR d_name 는
null로 끝나는 파일 이름이다.
.PP
이 시스템 콜은 
.BR readdir (2)를
대체한다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 읽은 바이트의 수가 리턴된다.
디렉토리의 끝에서, 0이 리턴된다.
에러시, \-1이 리턴되며, 
.IR errno 는
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EBADF
유효하지 않은 파일 기술자
.IR fd .
.TP
.B EFAULT
인자가 호출한 프로세스의 주소 공간을 벗어난 곳을 가리킨다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
결과 버퍼가 너무 작다.
.TP
.B ENOENT
그런 디렉토리가 없다.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
파일 기술자가 디렉토리를 참조하고 있지 않다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID.  SVr4 문서에서는 ENOLINK, EIO 에러 상태가 추가되있다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR readdir (2),
.BR readdir (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 2일
