.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH GETDTABLESIZE 2 "1993년 7월 22일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getdtablesize \- 기술자(descriptor) 테이블 크기를 알아낸다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int getdtablesize(void);
.SH 설명
.BR getdtablesize 는
프로세스가 열 수 있는 파일의 최대 갯수를 리턴한다.
.SH 주의
.B getdtablesize 는
DLL 4.4.1에서 라이브러리 함수처럼 수행된다.
이 함수는 라이브러리가 컴파일될 때
.BR OPEN_MAX 가
정의되었다면
.BR OPEN_MAX를
(리눅스 2.0.23에서 256으로 설정) 
리턴한다.
그렇지 않으면, \-1이 리턴하며, 
.IR errno 는
.BR ENOSYS 로
설정된다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, 4.4BSD 
(\fBgetdtablesize\fP
함수는 BSD 4.2에서 처음으로 나타났다).
.SH 관련 항목
.BR close (2),
.BR dup (2),
.BR open (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 2일
