.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH GETDOMAINNAME 2 "1993년 7월 22일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getdomainname, setdomainname \- 도메인 이름을 알아내거나 설정한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getdomainname(char *" name ", size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int setdomainname(const char *" name ", size_t " len );
.SH 설명
이 함수는 현재 프로세서(processor)의 도메인 이름을 알아내거나 바꿀 때 사용된다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며, 
.IR errno 는
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EINVAL
.BR getdomainname 에서,
.IR name 이 
.BR NULL 을 
가리키거나 
.IR name 이 
.IR len 보다 
길다.
.TP
.B EPERM
.BR setdomainname 에서, 
호출한 프로세스의 권한이 슈퍼 유저가 아니다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.BR setdomainname 에서,
.IR len 가 
너무 길다.
.SH 호환
POSIX는 이 시스템 콜들을 기술하지 않는다.
.SH 버그
.B getdomainname 은 
다른 플랫폼에서의 구현과 호환되지 않는다. 왜냐하면 이 구현들은 
.I name 이 
len 보다 더 길어도, 항상 
.I len
바이트를 리턴하기 때문이다.
그러나, 리눅스에서는 이런 경우
.BR EINVAL 를 
리턴한다. (DLL 4.4.1 라이브러리에서 처럼).
.SH 주의
리눅스에서
.BR getdomainname "는 " uname (2)을 
호출하여 라이브러리 차원에서 수행된다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR gethostname (2),
.BR sethostname (2),
.BR uname (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 2일
