.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 12:04:29 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 26일
.\"
.TH GETGROUPS 2 "10 December 1997" "Linux 2.0.32" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
getgroups, setgroups \- 부가 그룹 ID의 리스트 소유/설정
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getgroups(int " size ", gid_t " list []);
.sp 2
.B #define _BSD_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <grp.h>
.sp
.BI "int setgroups(size_t " size ", const gid_t *" list );
.SH 설명
.TP
.B getgroups
.I 크기
에 따라서 부가 그룹은 
.IR 리스트 .
로 반환된다.
만약
.I 크기
가 0 이면
.I 리스트
는 변경되지 않는다. 하지만 프로세스를 위한 부가 그룹의 총 수는 반환된다.
.TP
.B setgroups
프로세스를 위해 부가 그룹을 설정. 슈퍼 유저만 이 함수를 사용할 수 있다.
.SH 반환값
.TP
.B getgroups
성공시, 부가 그룹 아이디의 수가 반환된다.
에러시에는 \-1이 반환된다.
.I errno
는 적당히 설정된다.
.TP
.B setgroups
성공시, 0을 반환한다. 에러시, \-1 이 반환돠니다. 그리고
.I errno
는 적당히 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I list
가 실제 없는 주소를 가지고 있다.
.TP
.B EPERM
.BR setgroups ,
에게 사용자가 슈퍼유저가 아니다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.BR setgroups ,
에게
.I 크기
가 
.B NGROUPS
(32 for Linux 2.0.32)보다 크다..
.BR getgroups ,
에게
.I 크기
가 부가 그룹 아디 수보다 작지만 0은 아니다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID (issue 4 only; 이 호출은 SVr3에 없다),
X/OPEN, 4.3BSD.  The
.B getgroups
함수는 POSIX.1안에 있다. 
.B setgroups
는 특권이 필요하기 때문에, POSIX.1로 지원되지 않는다.
.SH 버그
The
.B _BSD_SOURCE
플래그는 아마도 
.BR setgroups 
에게 필요하지 않을 것이다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR initgroups (3),
.BR getgid (2),
.BR setgid (2)
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 26일
