.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Updated with additions from Mitchum DSouza <m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk>
.\" Portions Copyright 1993 Mitchum DSouza <m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk>
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH GETHOSTID 2 "1993년 11월 29일" "리눅스 0.99.13" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
gethostid, sethostid \- 현재 호스트의 유일한 식별자(indentifier)를 얻어오거나 설정한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B long int gethostid(void);
.br
.BI "int sethostid(long int " hostid );
.SH 설명
현재 머신을 위한 32 비트 식별자를 얻거나 설정한다.
32비트 식별자는 존재하는 모든 유닉스 시스템 중에서 유일해야 한다.
이것은 
.BR gethostbyname (3)에
의해 리턴되는 로컬 머신의 인터넷 주소와 비슷하다.
그리고 보통 설정할 필요가 없다.

.BR sethostid 를
호출할 수 있는 것은 슈퍼 유저로 제한되어 있다.

.I hostid
인자는 
.IR /etc/hostid 
파일에 저장된다.
.SH 반환값
.BR gethostid "는 " sethostid (2)에
의해 설정된 현재 호스트의 32 비트 식별자를 리턴한다.
.SH 호환
4.2BSD.  이 함수들은 4.4BSD에서 없어졌다.
POSIX.1에서는 이 함수들을 정의하지 않았지만, ISO/IEC 9945-1:1990는 
B.4.4.1에서 언급한다.  SVr4는
.BR gethostid 는
포함하지만, 
.BR sethostid 는
포함하지 않는다.
.SH 파일
.I /etc/hostid
.SH 관련 항목
.BR hostid (1),
.BR gethostbyname (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 2일
