.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@duracef.shout.net>:
.\"   'gethostname' is real system call on Linux/Alpha.
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:30:53 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH GETHOSTNAME 2 "1995년 7월 22일" "리눅스 1.3.6" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
gethostname, sethostname \- 호스트의 이름을 알아내거나 설정한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int gethostname(char *" name ", size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int sethostname(const char *" name ", size_t " len );
.SH 설명
이 함수들은 현재 프로세서(processor)의 호스트 이름을 접근하거나 변경시킬때 사용된다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며, 
.IR errno 는 
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EINVAL
.IR len 가 
음수이거나, 
.BR sethostname 시에
.IR len 이 
최대 허용값보다 크거나, 
Linux/i386에서
.BR gethostname 시에
.IR len 이 
실제 크기보다 작다.
.TP
.B EPERM
.BR sethostname 에서,
호출하는 프로세스의 권한이 슈퍼 유저가 아니다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR name 이 
유효한 주소가 아니다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, 4.4BSD (이 함수는 4.2BSD에서 처음으로 나타났다).
POSIX.1은 이 함수를 정의하지 않았다. 그러나, 
ISO/IEC 9945-1:1990는  B.4.4.1에서 언급하였다. 
.SH 버그
.BR gethostname 의 
다른 구현에서는
.IR name 이 
길 때 조차도, 
.I len
바이트를 성공적으로 리턴한다.
Linux/Alpha는 이런 방법으로 컴파일된다.
그러나, Linux/i386는 이런 경우
.BR EINVAL 를 
리턴한다.
.SH 주의
Linux/Alpha에서,
.BR gethostname 은 
시스템 콜이다.
Linux/i386에서,
.BR gethostname 는 
.BR uname (2) 을 
호출하여 라이브러리 차원에서 수행된다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR getdomainname (2),
.BR setdomainname (2),
.BR uname (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 2일
