.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions from /usr/include/unistd.h are
.\"               Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH GETPAGESIZE 2 "1993년 7월 23일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getpagesize \- 시스템 페이지 크기를 알아낸다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B size_t getpagesize(void);
.SH 설명
한 페이지의 바이트 수를 리턴한다. 이것은 시스템의 페이지 크기이며, 
하드웨어 페이지 크기와 같을 필요는 없다.
.SH 주의
.BR getpagesize 는
DLL 4.4.1에서 라이브러리 함수처럼 수행된다. 
라이브러리가 컴파일될 때 정의된 것에 따라서, 이 함수는 
.B EXEC_PAGESIZE
(Linux 0.99.11에서 4096으로 설정되었다),
.B NBPG
(Linux 0.99.11에서 4096으로 설정되었다) 또는 
.BR NBPC 을
(Linux 0.99.11이나 DLL 4.4.1 라이브러리에서 정의하지 않았다)
리턴한다.
.SH 버그
아키텍쳐와 라이브러리 버전에 의존하여, 이 라이브러리 호출은 
시스템 콜이거나 아닐 수 있다. 리턴되는 값은 시스템 콜에 따라 다르다.
예를 들어, libc5를 사용하는 sun4에서 이 루틴은 PAGE_SIZE(4096)가 아닌 
EXEC_PAGESIZE(8192)를 리턴하거나, 또는 시스템 콜의 결과(4096)를 리턴한다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, 4.4BSD (이 시스템 콜은 4.2BSD에서 처음으로 나타났다).
.SH 관련 항목
.BR sbrk (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 2일
