.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역: 최윤용 <markboy@secsm.org> 2000년 4월 22일
.\"
.\" r1.2 2005-02-17 16:29:20 +10-2 윤현호
.\" r1.1 2004-03-29 15:03:46  210.117.186.69
.\"
.TH GETPID 2 "1993년 7월 23일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getpid, getppid \- 프로세스 식별값(identification)을 얻는다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B pid_t getpid(void);
.br
.B pid_t getppid(void);
.SH 설명
.BR getpid 는
현재 프로세스의 프로세스 ID를 돌려준다. (이것은 유일한 임시 파일 이름을 만드는
루틴에서 종종 사용된다.)

.BR getppid 는
현재 프로세스의 부모 프로세스 ID를 돌려준다.
.SH "호환"
POSIX, BSD 4.3, SVID
.SH "관련 항목"
.BR exec (3),
.BR fork (2),
.BR kill (2),
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR tmpnam (3),
.BR tempnam (3),
.BR tmpfile (3)
.SH 번역
최윤용 <markboy@secsm.org> 2000년 4월 22일
.br
한글 Manpage 프로젝트 (http://man.kldp.org) 2005년 2월 17일
