.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH GETRESUID 2 "1997년 7월 16일" "리눅스 2.1.44" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getresuid, getresgid \- get 실제(real), 유효(effective), 복구(saved) 유저나
                        그룹의 ID를 알 수있다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getresuid(uid_t *" ruid ", uid_t *" euid ", uid_t *" suid );
.br
.BI "int getresgid(gid_t *" rgid ", gid_t *" egid ", gid_t *" sgid ); 
.SH 설명
.B getresuid
와
.B getresgid
(둘다 리눅스 2.1.44에서 처음 소개되었다.)
는 현 프로세스의 실제, 유효, 복구 유저 ID를 알수 있다.

.SH 반환값
성공시, 0을 반환한다. 실패시, \-1을 반환하고, errno는 적절하게 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EFAULT
인수중 하나는 호출된 프로그램의 주소공간 밖에 지정한다.
.SH 호환
이 호출은 리눅스에서만 쓰인다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR getuid (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR getreuid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setresuid (2)
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 29일
