.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 14:18:40 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@y\thyrsus.com>
.TH GETSID 2 "1996년 4월 11일" "리눅스 1.3.85" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getsid \- 세션 ID를 가져온다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "pid_t getsid(pid_t" " pid" );
.SH 설명
.BR getsid(0) 는 
호출한 프로세스의 세션 ID를 반환한다.
\fBgetsid(\fIp\fB)\fP는 프로세스 ID가 
.IR p 인 
프로세스의 세션 ID를 반환한다.
.SH 에러
에러시, \-1이 리턴된다. 일어날 수 있는 유일한 에러는 
.BR ESRCH 이며, 
프로세스 ID
.IR p 를 
가진 프로세스가 없을 때이다.
.SH 호환
SVr4 문서에는 EPERM 에러 상태가 추가되있다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR setsid (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 13일

