.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getsockname.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:30:29 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sun Mar 28 21:26:46 1999 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 27일
.\"
.TH GETSOCKNAME 2 "24 July 1993" "BSD Man Page" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
getsockname \- 소켓 이름을 가진다
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.B "int getsockname(int " s ", struct sockaddr *" name ", socklen_t *" namelen )
.SH 설명
.B Getsockname
은 지정한 소켓의 현재 
.I 이름
을 반환한다. 
.I namelen
매개 변수는 
.IR name .
에 의해 지정된 공간의 양을 측정해야 하기 때문에 초기치로 맞추어야 한다. 반환 시에는, 이것은 반환된 name의 실제 크기를 포함한다.(bytes로)
.SH 반환값
성공 시에는.0을 반환하고 에러 시에는 \-1을 반환한다. 그리고,
.I errno
는 적절히 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EBADF

독립 변수
.I s
가 invalid descriptor이다.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
독립 변수
.I s
가 스텍이 아니고 파일이다.
.TP
.B ENOBUFS
시스템상의 리소스가 작동하는데 충분하지 않다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I name
매개 변수가 프로세스 주소 영역의 가능한 부분이 아닌 메모리를 지정한다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, 4.4BSD (
.B getsockname
함수 호출이 4.2BSD에 있다).  SVr4 는 부가적인ENOMEM와 
ENOSR 에러 코드에 관한 설명도 포함되어 있다. 
.SH 주의
.B getsockname
의 세번째 독립변수는 실제로는 `int *' (이것은 BSD 4.* 와libc4 와libc5가 가지고 있는 것이다.)이다.
현제의 socklen_t에는 약간의 POSIX confusion이 있다.
draft standard는 아직 채택되지 않았다. 하지만 glibc2 는 이미 이것을 따르고 있고, 이것은 socklen_t도 가지고 있다. 
.BR accept (2)
도 보자.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR bind (2),
.BR socket (2)
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 27일
