.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH GETUID 2 "1993년 7월 23일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getuid, geteuid \- 사용자 식별자(identity)를 알아낸다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B uid_t getuid(void);
.br
.B uid_t geteuid(void);
.SH 설명
.BR getuid 는
현재 프로세스의 실제(real) 사용자 ID를 리턴한다.

.B geteuid 는
현재 프로세스의 유효(effective) 사용자 ID를 리턴한다.

실제 ID는 호출한 프로세스의 ID이다.
유효 ID는 실행되고 있는 파일에 설정된 ID이다.
.SH 에러
이 함수들은 항상 성공한다.
.SH 호환
POSIX, BSD 4.3.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setuid (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 2일
