.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from linux/mm/swap.c:
.\"                Copyright (C) 1991, 1992  Linus Torvalds
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 21 Aug 1994 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Added text about calling restriction (new in kernel 1.1.20 I believe).
.\"   N.B. calling "idle" from user process used to hang process!
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 14:41:15 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" "
.TH IDLE 2 "1994년 8월 21일" "리눅스 1.1.46" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
idle \- 0번 프로세스를 idle 상태로 만든다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int idle(void);
.SH 설명
.BR idle 은
부팅되는 동안 사용되는 내부 시스템 콜이다.
이 시스템 콜은 스왑가능 하도록 프로세스의 페이지을 만들고, 우선권을
낮추며, 메인 스케줄링 루프로 들어간다.
.BR idle 은
결코 리턴하지 않는다.
.PP
0번 프로세스만이 
.BR idle 을
호출할 수 있다.
슈퍼 유저 권한을 가지고 있는 프로세스 조차 
.BR EPERM 을 
받을 것이다.
.SH 반환값
.BR idle 은
프로세스 0에서는 리턴하지 않으며, 유저 프로세스에서는 항상 \-1을 리턴한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EPERM
유저 프로세스일 경우 항상.
.SH 호환
이 함수는 리눅스에 한하며, 호환성을 염두에 둔 프로그램에서 사용해서는 안 된다.
.SH 주의
2.3.13이후 이 시스템 콜은 더 이상 존재하지 않는다. 
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 5월 2일
