.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ioctl.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:38:19 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Fri Jun 25 23:51:39 BST 1999 by Rachael Munns <vashti@dream.org.uk>
.\"
.TH IOCTL 2 "1993년 7월 23일" "BSD 맨페이지" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
ioctl \- 장치를 제어한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sys/ioctl.h>
.sp
.BI "int ioctl(int " d ", int " request ", ...)"
.sp
[세번째 인자는 전통적으로 \fBchar *\fIargp\fR 이며, 설명를 위해 그렇게 
언급하겠다.]
.SH 설명
.B ioctl
함수는 특수 파일의 장치 인자를 조절한다.
특히, 문자 특수 파일(예로 터미널)의 많은 특징적인 동작은
.BR ioctl 의 
요구에 의해 제어된다.
.I d
인자는 반드시 열린 파일 기술자이어야 한다.

ioctl
.IR request 는 
인자가 
.IR 입력 되는 
인자인지
.IR 출력 되는 
인자인지와
.I argp
인자의 바이트 단위의 크기를 나타낸다.
ioctl
.IR request 를
나타내기 사용되는 매크로와 상수는 
.IR <sys/ioctl.h> 파일에
정의되어 있다.

.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며, 
.IR errno 는 
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP 0.7i
.B EBADF
.IR d 는 
유효한 기술자가 아니다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I argp 는 
접근할 수 없는 메모리 영역을 참조한다.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
.I d 는 
문자 특수 파일과 연관되지 있지 않다.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
명시한 request는 파일 기술자 
.I d 에
해당하는 객체에 적용되지 않는다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.IR request 또는
.IR argp 가 
유효하지 않다.
.SH 호환
단일 표준이 없다. 인자, 반환값과 
.BR ioctl (2) 의 
의미는 요청되는 장치 드라이버에 따라 달라진다.
(이 시스템 콜은 유닉스 스트림 I/O 모델에 깨끗하게 맞지 않는 연산을 위한
대체 방법으로써 사용된다.)

알려져있는 많은 
.B ioctl
호출 리스트를 보기 원한다면 
.BR ioctl_list (2)
를 참조해라.
.B ioctl
함수는 Version 7 AT&T Unix에서 나타났다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR execve (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR mt (4),
.BR sd (4),
.BR tty (4)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 4월 27일
