.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (michael@moria.de)
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\" 
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 15:12:05 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Aug  1 16:27    1995 by Jochen Karrer 
.\"                              <cip307@cip.physik.uni-wuerzburg.de>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Mon Feb 15 17:28:41 CET 1999 by Andries E. Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.TH IOPERM 2 "1993년 1월 21일" "Linux" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
ioperm \- 포트의 입력/출력 허가권을 설정한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
/* for libc5 */
.br
.B #include <sys/io.h>
/* for glibc */
.sp
.BI "int ioperm(unsigned long " from ", unsigned long " num ", int " turn_on );
.SH 설명
\fBIoperm\fP 는 프로세스를 위해 포트 주소 \fBfrom\fP 을 시작으로 \fInum\fP 
바이트를 \fBturn_on\fP 값으로 포트 접근 허가 비트를 설정한다.
\fBioperm\fP 의 사용은 루트 권한을 요구한다.

단지 처음 0x3ff I/O 포트만이 이 방법으로 지정될수 있다.
더 많은 포트를 위해서는, 
.B iopl
함수가 사용되어야 한다.
허가권은 fork에서 상속되지 않지만 exec 에서는 된다.
이것은 비-우선권 태스크에 대한 포트 접근 허가권을 줄때 유용하다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며
.I errno
는 적당한 값을 설정된다.
.SH 호환
\fBioperm\fP 는 리눅스에 의존적이며 호환성을 염두에 둔 프로그램에서는 사용되어
서는 안된다.
.SH 주의
Libc5는 시스템 콜로서 이함수를 다루며 
.IR <unistd.h> 에
원형이 있다.
Glibc1은 원형을 가지고 있지 않다. Glibc2는 
.I <sys/io.h>
와
and in
.IR <sys/perm.h> 에
원형을 가지고 있다.
i386에서만 이용가능하다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR iopl (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 9월 16일
