.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)killpg.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:55:01 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH KILLPG 2 "1993년 7월 23일" "BSD 맨페이지" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
killpg \- 프로세스 그룹에 시그널을 보낸다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int killpg(int " pgrp ", int " sig );
.SH 설명
.BR killpg 는
.I sig
시그널을 
.IR pgrp 
프로세스 그룹에 보낸다.
시그널을 목록은 
.BR sigaction (2)를
보아라.

.IR pgrp 가
0이면 
.BR killpg 는
보내는 프로세스의 프로세스 그룹에 시그널을 보낸다.

보내는 프로세스와 프로세스 그룹의 프로세스들은 같은 유효 사용자 ID를 
갖거나 보내는 프로세스가 슈퍼-유저여야만 한다. 한 가지 특별한 경우로,
.B SIGCONT
재개(continue) 시그널은 현재 프로세스의 어떤 자손 프로세스에게도 
보내질 수 있다.

.SH 반환값
성공시 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, -1이 리턴되고 
.IR errno 가
적절히 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EINVAL
.IR sig 가
올바른 시그널 번호가 아니다.
.TP
.B ESRCH
.IR pgrp 로
명시된 프로세스 그룹에 프로세스가 존재하지 않는다.
.TP
.B ESRCH
프로세스 그룹이 0으로 주어졌으나 보내는 프로세스는 프로세스 그룹을
갖고 있지 않다.
.TP
.B EPERM
보내는 프로세스가 슈퍼-유저가 아니고 하나 이상의 타겟 프로세스가
보내는 프로세스와는 다른 유효 사용자 ID를 가지고 있다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, 4.4BSD (\fBkillpg\fP
함수는 4.0BSD에서 처음으로 보였다).
.SH 관련 항목
.BR kill (2),
.BR getpgrp (2),
.BR signal (2)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2000년 4월 20일
