.\" Copyright (C) 1995 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Written 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 15:16:23 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH LLSEEK 2 "1995년 6월 10일" "리눅스 1.2.9" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH NAME
_llseek \- 읽기/쓰기 파일 변위(offset)을 재배치한다.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall5(int, _llseek, uint, fd, ulong, hi, ulong, lo, loff_t *, res, uint, wh);
.sp
.BI "int _llseek(unsigned int " fd ", unsigned long " offset_high ", unsigned long " offset_low ", loff_t * " result ", unsigned int " whence );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B _llseek
함수는 파일 시작 혹은 
.I  whence
가 
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
.BR SEEK_END ,
에 각각 영향을 받는
파일의 끝부분과 관련된
.I (offset_high<<32) | offset_low
바이트에 파일 디스크립터
.I fd
의 변위(offset)를 재배치한다.
인수 
.IR result
에 결과 파일 위치를 반환한다.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
성공시
.B _llseek
는 0을 반환한다. 그 외에는 \-1을 반환하고
.I errno
는 에러를 지정하기 위해 설정된다.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
는 파일열기 디스크립터가 아니다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I whence
는 유효하지 않다.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
이 함수는 리눅스에서만 쓰이며, 다른 프로그램에서 쓰여서는 안된다.
.SH BUGS
ext2 파일시스템은 2GB이상의 파일은 지원하지 않는다.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lseek (2)
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 27일
