.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@duracef.shout.net), 22 July 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH MODIFY_LDT 2 "1995년 6월 22일" "Linux 1.3.6" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
modify_ldt \- ldt를 가져오거나 설정한다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <linux/ldt.h>
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall3( int, modify_ldt, int, func, void *, ptr, unsigned long, bytecount )
.sp
.BI "int modify_ldt(int " "func" ", void *" "ptr" ", unsigned long " "bytecount" ");"
.fi
.SH 설명
.BR modify_ldt 는 
프로세스를 위해 지역 기술자 테이블(local descriptor table, ldt)을 읽거나 쓴다.
ldt는 i386 프로세스에 의해 사용되는 프로세스당 메모리 관리 테이블이다.
이 테이블에 관한 더 많은 정보를 원한다면, Intel 386 프로세스 핸드북을 
참조해라.
.PP
.IR func 가 
0이라면, 
.BR modify_ldt 는 
.IR ptr 가
가리키는 메모리로 ldt를 읽어들인다.
읽을 바이트 수는 
.IR bytecount 보다 
작으며 ldt의 실제 크기를 나타낸다.
.PP
.IR func 가 
1이라면,
.BR modify_ldt 는 
하나의 ldt 엔트리를 수정한다.
.IR ptr 는 
.I modify_ldt_ldt_s
구조체를 가리키며
.IR bytecount 는 
이 구조체의 크기와 같아야 한다.
.SH 반환값
성공시,
.BR modify_ldt 는 
읽은(읽기 시에) 바이트의 실제 수나 0(쓰기 시에)을 반환한다.
실패시,
.BR modify_ldt 는 
\-1을 반환하며
.IR errno 는
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B ENOSYS
.IR func 가 
0도 1도 아니다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.IR ptr 이 
0이거나, 
.IR func 가 
1이고
.IR bytecount 가 
.IR modify_ldt_ldt_s 구조체의
크기와 같지 않을 경우나,
.IR func 가 
1이고 새로운 ldt 엔트리가 허용되지 않는 값이다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR ptr 이 
주소 공간이 아닌 곳을 가리키고 있다.
.SH 호환
이 함수는 리눅스에 의존적이며 호환성을 염두에 둔 프로그램에서 사용해서는
안된다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR vm86 (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 28일
