.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH MSYNC 2 "1996년 5월 12일" "Linux 1.3.86" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
msync \- 메모리 대응과 파일을 동기화한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mman.h>
.sp
.B #ifdef _POSIX_MAPPED_FILES
.br
.B #ifdef _POSIX_SYNCHRONIZED_IO
.sp
.BI "int msync(const void *" start ", size_t " length ", int " flags );
.sp
.B #endif
.br
.B #endif
.SH 설명
.B msync
는 
.BR mmap (2)를
사용하여 메모리에 대응된 파일의 원 복사본에 만들어진 변경들을 디스크로 다시 세척
한다.
이 함수를 사용하지 않을경우, 
.BR munmap (2)이
호출되기전에 변경 내용들이 디스크로 다시 쓰여지는 것은 보장되지 않는다.
더 정확히 말하면, 
.I start
로 시작하여
.I length
길이를 가지는 메모리 영역에 해당하는 파일의 일부분이 갱신된다.
.I flags
인자는 MS_ASYNC, MS_SYNC 그리고 MS_INVALIDATE 집합들을 가진다.
그러나, MS_ASYNC 와 MS_SYNC를 동시에 가지지는 않는다.
MS_ASYNC는 갱신이 스케줄 됐지만, 호출은 즉시 반환된다는걸 명시한다.
MS_SYNC는 갱신을 요구하고 끝나기를 기다린다.
MS_INVALIDATE는 같은 파일의 다른 대응들을 무효화하도록 요구한다(그래서 단지 쓰여졌을경우만 새로운 값으로 갱신된다.)
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며 
.I errno
는 적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.BR EINVAL
.I start
가 PAGESIZE의 배수가 아니거나, MS_ASYNC | MS_INVALIDATE | MS_SYNC 외 다른 비트들이 
.IR flags에
설정되어 있다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
지정된 메모리(또는 그것의 일부분)가 대응되지 않았다.
.SH 호환
POSIX.1b (formerly POSIX.4)
.SH 관련 항목
.BR mmap (2),
B.O. Gallmeister, POSIX.4, O'Reilly, pp. 128-129 and 389-391.
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 7월 3일
