.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) Markus Kuhn, 1996
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 1995-11-26  Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"      First version written
.\"
.TH MUNLOCK 2 "1995년 11월 26일" "리눅스 1.3.43" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
munlock \- 메모리의 일정 부분에 대한 페이징을 다시 가능하게 한다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <sys/mman.h>
.sp
\fBint munlock(const void *\fIaddr\fB, size_t \fIlen\fB);
.fi
.SH 설명
.BR munlock 은 
.IR addr 부터
.IR len
바이트만큼 범위의 메모리에 대한 페이징을 다시 가능하게 한다.
지정된 메모리 범위의 일부를 포함하는 모든 페이지들은 
.BR munlock 이 
호출된 후 커널에 의해 다시 외부 스왑 공간으로 이동된다.

메모리 잠근은 스택이 아니다.
즉,  
.BR mlock 이나 
.BR mlockall 이
여러번 호출되어 여러번 잠겼던 페이지는 상응하는 범위에 대한
.BR munlock 이나 
.BR munlockall 를 
단 한번 호출하여 잠금을 풀 수 있다.
여러 위치나 여러 프로세스에 의해 잠겨진 페이지는 적어도 하나의 
위치나 프로세스에 의해 잠겨져 있는 한 RAM에서 계속적으로 잠금이 유지된다.

.BR mlock 과
.BR munlock 를 
이용할 수 있는 POSIX 시스템에서 
.BR _POSIX_MEMLOCK_RANGE 는 
<unistd.h>에 정의되어 있으며 <limits.h>에서
.BR PAGESIZE 는 
페이지당 바이트 수를 가리킨다.

.SH 반환값
성공시, 
.BR munlock 은 
0을 리턴한다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며, 
.IR errno 는 
적절한 값으로 설정된다. 그리고 해당 프로세스의 주소 공간의
잠금에 어떠한 변화도 일어나지 않는다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B ENOMEM
지정된 주소의 일정 부분이 해당 프로세스 주소 공간의 페이지와 
일치하지 않는다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.IR len 이 
양수가 아니다.
.SH 호환
POSIX.1b, SVr4.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR munlock (2),
.BR mlockall (2),
.BR munlockall (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 20일
