.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt <drew@cs.colorado.edu>, March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:51:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Nov  4 21:02:11 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH NICE 2 "1992년 3월 28일" "Linux" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
nice \- 프로세스의 우선순위을 변경한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int nice(int " inc );
.SH 설명
.BR nice 는 
호출 프로세스 pid의 우선순위에 
.IR inc 를 
더한다.
단지 슈퍼 사용자만이 음수를 더해서 우선순위를 상승시킬 수 있다.
.PP
내부적으로, 높은 수는 높은 우선권을 가리킨다.
이것과
.B  nice
인터페이스에서 사용되는 우선권 구조와 혼동하지 마라.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0을 반환한다. 에러시, \-1을 반환하며,
.IR errno 는 
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EPERM
비-슈퍼 사용자가 음수의 
.IR inc 를 
지정하여 우선권 증가, 즉 수치적 감소를 할려고 시도했다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID EXT, AT&T, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3.  SVr4문서는 
EINVAL에러 상태를 추가했다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR nice (1),
.BR setpriority (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR renice (8)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 26일
