.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@duracef.shout.net):
.\"   Fixed incorrect word in 'TH' call.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 16:44:55 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH OBSOLETE 2 "1995년 6월 22일" "Linux 1.3.6" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
oldfstat, oldlstat, oldstat, oldolduname, olduname \- 사용되지 않는 구식의 
시스템 콜들
.SH 사용법
사용되지 않는 구식 시스템 콜들.
.SH 설명
리눅스 2.0 커널은 예전 실행들을 지원하기 위해 이 시스템 콜들을 수행한다.
이들 함수들은 그것들이 처음 실행된후 생성된 구조체를 반환한다.
그러나 예전 실행들은 예전의 작은 구조체를 받기 위해 계속해야 한다.
.PP
현재의 실행들은 현재 라이브러리들과 연결되어야 하며 이 시스템 콜들을 결코 
사용해서는 안된다.
.SH 호환
이들 시스템 콜들은 리눅스에서 유일하며 새로운 모든 프로그램에서는 사용되서는 
안된다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR fstat (2),
.BR lstat (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR uname (2),
.BR undocumented (2),
.BR unimplemented (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 7월 2일
