.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Paul Gortmaker
.\" (gpg109@rsphy1.anu.edu.au)
.\" Wed Nov 29 10:58:54 EST 1995
.\" 
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 26일
.\"
.TH OUTB 2 "1995년 11월 29일" "리눅스" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
outb, outw, outl, outsb, outsw, outsl \- port output
.br
inb, inw, inl, insb, insw, insl \- port input
.br
outb_p, outw_p, outl_p, inb_p, inw_p, inl_p \- paused I/O
.sp
.SH 설명
이 함수그룹은 낮은 레벨의 포트에서 입력과 출력을 하는데 사용된다.
내부 커널 사용을 위해 만들어졌으나, 사용자 공간에서도 사용할 수
있고, 
.I outb(9)
에서 주어지는 것에 더해서 아래와 같은 정보가 주어진다.
.sp
\fB\-O\fP나 \fB\-O2\fP, 혹은 비슷한 것으로 컴파일 할 수 있다. 함수는 내부 매크로로 정의되고, 최적화 되지 않은 상태에서 대체 되지 않는다.
.sp
커널이 문제의 I/O 포트에 접근할 수 있도록 사용자 공간 어플리케이션을 허가하도록 알리는데
.I ioperm(2)
나 선택적으로
.I iopl(2)
을 사용한다. 이것을 하는데 실패하면, 어플리케이션은 분할 결점을 받게 된다.

.SH 호환
\fBoutb\fP 와 그 부류의 것들은 하드웨어 특화 되어 있다.
.I port
와 
.I value
독립 변수는 대부분의 도스에서 순서가 반대이다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR ioperm (2),
.BR iopl (2)
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 29
