.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:48:00 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby (mib@deakin.edu.au)
.\"
.TH PAUSE 2 "1995년 8월 31일" "Linux" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
pause \- 시그널을 기다린다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int pause(void);
.SH 설명
.B pause
시스템 콜은 신호를 받을 때까지 호출 프로세스를 중지시킨다.
.SH 반환값
.BR pause 는 
항상 \-1을 반환하며, 
.IR errno 는 
.BR ERESTARTNOHAND 으로 
설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EINTR
시그널을 받았다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR kill (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR signal (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 5월 26일
