.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" typo corrected, aeb, 950825
.\" added layout change from joey, 960722
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH PERSONALITY 2 "1996년 7월 22일" "리눅스 2.0" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
personality \- 프로세스 실행 도메인 설정.
.SH 사용법
.BI "int personality(unsigned long " persona );
.SH 설명
리눅스는 프로세스별로 각기 다른 실행 도메인을 제공한다. 다른 것들 가운데,
실행 도메인은 리눅스가 시그널 액션에 어떻게 시그널 번호를 매핑하는지 알려준다.
실행 도메인 시스템은 리눅스가 다른 유닉스 호환 시스템하의 바이너리 컴파일의 제
한된 지원을 한다.

.B personality
는 현재 프로세스의 새로운 실행 도메인인
.I persona
를 참조해 실행 도메인을 만들것이다.
.SH 반환값
성공시,
.I persona
는 새로운 실행 도메인을 만들고 이전
.I persona
를 반환한다. 실패시, \-1을 반환하고
.I errno
가 적절히 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I persona
는 유효한 실행 도메인이 아니다.
.PP
.SH 파일
.I /usr/include/linux/personality.h
.SH 호환
.B personality
는 리눅스에서만 사용되며 다른 프로그램에서는 사용할 수 없다.
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 29
