.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 23:25:42 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 17:23:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH PIPE 2 "1993년 7월 23일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
pipe \- 파이프를 생성한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pipe(int " filedes "[2]);"
.SH 설명
.BR pipe 는 
파이프 inode를 가르키는 파일 디스크립터쌍을 생성하고, 
.IR filedes 가 
가르키는 배열에 이 생성된 파일 디스크립터쌍을 저장한다.
.IR filedes[0] 는 
읽기 위한 것이고,
.IR filedes[1] 는 
쓰기 위한 것이다.
.SH 반환값
성공시 0이 리턴된다. 에러시 \-1이 리턴되고
.IR errno 가
적절히 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EMFILE
너무 많은 파일 디스크립터가 프로세스에 의해 사용되고 있다.
.TP
.B ENFILE
시스템 파일 테이블이 꽉 찼다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR filedes 가 
유효하지 못하다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR socketpair (2)
.SH 역자
정동현 <dhjung@serome.co.kr>, 2000년 4월 20일
