.\" Copyright (C) 1999 Joseph Samuel Myers.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH PREAD 2 "1999년 1월 21일" "Linux 2.2.0-pre9" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
pread, pwrite \- 주어진 변위에서 파일 기술자에서 읽거나 파일 기술자에 쓴다.
.SH 사용법
.B #define _XOPEN_SOURCE 500
.sp
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "ssize_t pread(int " fd ", void *" buf ", size_t " count ", off_t " offset );
.sp
.BI "ssize_t pwrite(int " fd ", const void *" buf ", size_t " count ", off_t " offset );
.fi
.SH 설명
.B pread()
는 파일 기술자
.I fd
의 변위 
.I offset
(파일의 시작에서)
에서 
.I count
바이트를 
.IR buf 로
시작하는 버퍼로 읽는다.
.PP
.B pwrite()
는  
.I buf
로 시작하는 버퍼를 파일 기술자 
.I fd
의 변위
.IR offset 에다가
.I count
바이트를 쓴다.
파일 변위는 바뀌지 않는다.


.PP
The file referenced by
.I fd
가 가리키는 파일은 이동할수 있어야 한다.

.SH 반환값
성공시, 읽거나 쓴 바이트 수가 반환된다.(\fBpwrite\fR 의 경우 0은 어떤 것도 
쓰여지지 않았다는 것을 가리키며 \fBpread\fR 의 경우는 파일의 끝을 가리킨다.)
에러시 \-1이 반환되며 
.I errno
는 에러를 가리키도록 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.B pread
는 실패할수 있고 
.I errno
를 \fBread\fR(2) 나 \fBlseek\fR(2) 가 가리키는 어떤 에러로 설정할수 있다.
.B pwrite
는 실패할수 있고
.I errno
를 \fBwrite\fR(2) 나 \fBlseek\fR(2)가 가리키는 어떤 에러로 설정할수 있다.
.SH 호환
Unix98
.SH 역사
\fBpread\fR 와 \fBpwrite\fR 시스템 콜들은 버전 2.1.60 에서 추가되었다; i386 
시스템 콜 테이블의 엔트리는 2.1.69 에 추가되었다.
libc 지원은(시스템 콜 없이 예전 커널의 에뮬레이션을 포함하여) glibc2.1에서 
추가되었다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR lseek (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 9월 19일
