.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)readlink.2	6.8 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 00:10:21 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Jul  9 23:55:17 1996 by aeb
.\" Modified Fri Jan 24 00:26:00 1997 by aeb
.\"
.TH READLINK 2 "1997년 8월 21일" "Linux 2.0.30" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
readlink \- 상징 연결의 값을 읽는다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int readlink(const char *" path ", char *" buf ", size_t " bufsiz );
.SH 설명
.B readlink
는 
.IR bufsiz 크기를
가지고 있는 버퍼
.IR buf 에
.I path
상징 연결의 요소를 넣는다.

.B readlink
는 
.IR buf 에
.B NULL
문자를 추가하지 않는다.

이 함수는 버퍼가 모든 내용을 넣기에 너무 작다면 내용을 자른다(
.I bufsiz
문자들의 길이로).
.SH 반환값
함수는 성공시 버퍼에 있는 문자들의 갯수가 반환되며, 에러가 발생했다면 \-1이 
리턴되며 
.IR errno 에는
에러 코드가 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
경로 머릿부의 요소가 디렉토리가 아니다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I bufsiz
가 양수가 아니다.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
경로 이름 또는 경로 이름의 요소가 너무 길다.
.TP
.B ENOENT
명명된 파일이 존재하지 않는다.
.TP
.B EACCES
탐색 허가권이 경로 머릿부의 요소에서 거부되었다.
.TP
.B ELOOP
너무 많은 상징 연결들을 경로이름을 번역하면서 만났다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
명명된 파일이 상징 연결이 아니다.
.TP
.B EIO
파일 시스템에서 읽는동안 I/O 에러가 발생했다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I buf
가 프로세스에 할당된 주소 공간 외까지 확장되었다.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
이용할수 있는 커널 메모리가 충분하지 않다.
.SH 호환
X/OPEN, 4.4BSD (
.B readlink
함수는 4.2BSD에서 나타났다.)
.SH 관련 항목
.BR stat (2),
.BR lstat (2),
.BR symlink (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 8월 5일
