.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 00:39:47 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:49:53 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH RMDIR 2 "1993년 7월 24일" "리눅스 0.99.7" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
rmdir \- 디렉토리 삭제.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int rmdir(const char *" pathname );
.SH 설명
.B rmdir
는 디렉토리(꼭 비어 있어야만한다.)를 삭제한다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0을 반환하고, 실패시, \-1을 반환하고, errno를 적절히 설정한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EPERM
pathname을 포함한 파일 시스템이 디렉토리 삭제를 지원하지 않는다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR pathname " 접근 할수 있는 주소공간이 아니다."
.TP
.B EACCES
pathname을 포함한 디렉토리의 쓰기 접근이 프로세스 유효 uid때문에 허락되지 않거나,
pathname의 디렉토리중 하나가 실행 권한이 없다.
.TP
.B EPERM
pathname을 포함하는 디렉토리가 ( S_ISVTX ) 스티키 비트를 가지고 있고, 프로세스의
유효 uid가 삭제할 수 있는 파일의 uid가 아니거나 그런 파일을 포함하는 디렉토리이다.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.IR pathname " 이 너무 길다."
.TP
.B ENOENT
pathname의 디렉토리가 없거나 링크가 깨졌다.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.IR pathname ,
이나
.IR pathname 
의 디렉토리가 사실 디렉토리가 아니다.
.TP
.B ENOTEMPTY
.I pathname
이 
.BR . " and " .. " ."
을 포함하지 않는다.
.TP
.B EBUSY
.I pathname
이 현재 작업중인 디렉토리이거나 몇몇 프로세스의 root디렉토리이다.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
커널메모리가 부족하다.
.TP
.B EROFS
.I pathname
이 read-only filesystem상의 파일이다.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.IR pathname 
의 링크가 너무 많다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH 버그
NFS프로토콜의 부적적한 표현은 현재 쓰고 있는 디렉토리의 기대하지 않은
소실을 야기 할 수 있다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR rename (2),
.BR mkdir (2),
.BR chdir (2),
.BR unlink (2),
.BR rmdir (1),
.BR rm (1)
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 29
