.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) Tom Bjorkholm & Markus Kuhn, 1996
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 1996-04-01 Tom Bjorkholm <tomb@mydata.se>
.\"            First version written
.\" 1996-04-10 Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"            revision
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH RR_GET_INTERVAL 2 "1996년 4월 10일" "리눅스 1.3.81" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
sched_rr_get_interval  \- 프로세스의 SCHED_RR간격을 출력한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sched.h>
.sp
\fBint sched_rr_get_interval(pid_t \fIpid\fB, struct timespec *\fItp\fB);
.sp
.nf
.ta 4n 12n 24n
\fBstruct timespec {
	time_t	tv_sec;	/* seconds */
	long	tv_nsec;	/* nanoseconds */
};
.ta
.fi
.SH 설명
.B sched_rr_get_interval 
는 \fIpid\fR로 프로세스 확인을 위해 \fItp\fR 라운드 로빈 시간에 의해 
\fItiespec\fR 구조체에 쓰게 된다. \fIpid\fR가 0이면, 호출된 프로세스
를 위한 시간은 *\fItp\fR에 쓰이게 된다. 확인된 프로세스는 
.I SCHED_RR 
스케쥴링 정책하에서만 실행된다.

라운드로빈 시간값은 리눅스 1.3.81이하 버전에서는 호환되지 않는다.

POSIX systems on which
.B sched_rr_get_interval
는 <unistd.h>의
.I _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
에 정의 되어있다.

.SH 반환값
성공시, 
.B sched_rr_get_interval
0을 반환한다.
실패시 \-1을 반환하고, errno는 적절하게 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B ESRCH
pid의 프로세스를 찾지 못한다.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
시스템 호출이 아직 실행되지 않았다.
.SH 호환
POSIX.1b (formerly POSIX.4)
.SH 버그
리눅스 1.3.81과 같이 \fBsched_rr_get_interval\fR가 ENOSYS에러를 반환하는것은 
SCHED_RR가 아직 충분한 구현과 적절한 테스트가 없었기 때문이다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR sched_setscheduler (2) 
는 리눅스 스케쥴링 개요를 포함한다.
.PP
.I Programming for the real world \- POSIX.4
by Bill O. Gallmeister, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., ISBN 1-56592-074-0
.br
.I IEEE Std 1003.1b-1993
(POSIX.1b standard, formerly POSIX.4)
.br
.I ISO/IEC 9945-1:1996
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 29일
