.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) Tom Bjorkholm & Markus Kuhn, 1996
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 1996-04-01 Tom Bjorkholm <tomb@mydata.se>
.\"            First version written
.\" 1996-04-10 Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"            revision
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 28일
.\" 
.TH SCHED_SETPARAM 2 "1996-04-10" "Linux 1.3.81" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
sched_setparam, sched_getparam \- 스케줄링 매개 변수의 설정과 소유
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sched.h>
.sp
\fBint sched_setparam(pid_t \fIpid\fB, const struct sched_param *\fIp\fB);
.sp
\fBint sched_getparam(pid_t \fIpid\fB, struct sched_param *\fIp\fB);
.sp
.nf
.ta 4n
\fBstruct sched_param {
	...
	int \fIsched_priority\fB;
	...
};
.ta
.fi
.SH 설명
.B sched_setparam
은 스케줄링 매개 변수를 \fIpid\fR에 의해 인식되는 프로세스를 위해 스케줄링 정책과 관련해서 설정한다. \fIpid\fR 가 0이면 현제 프로세스의 매개 변수들이 설정된다.
매개 변수 \fIp\fR의 해석은 선택된 정책에 달렸다. 현재, 아래 세가지 스케줄링 정책이 리눅스에서 지원된다:
.IR SCHED_FIFO , 
.IR SCHED_RR ,
와 
.IR SCHED_OTHER.

.B sched_getparam
는 \fIpid\fR 로 구분되는 프로세스를 위해 스케줄링 매개 변수를 검색한다.
\fIpid\fR 가 0이면, 현재 프로세스의 매개 변수는 검색된다.

.B sched_setparam
는 프로세스의 스케줄링 정책을 위해 \fIp\fR의 유효성을 확인한다.
매개 변수\fIp->sched_priority\fR는 반드시 \fBsched_get_priority_min\fR와
\fBsched_get_priority_max\fR에 의해 주어진 범위 안에 있어야 한다.

.B sched_setparam
와
.B sched_getparam
이 가능한 POSIX 시스템은 <unistd.h>안에
.I _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
를 규정한다.

.SH 반환값
성공 시,
.BR sched_setparam
와
.BR sched_getparam
은 0을 반환한다..
에러 시, \-1이 반환되고,
.I errno
는 적절히 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B ESRCH
ID가 \fIpid\fR인 프로세스를 찾을 수 없다.
.TP
.B EPERM
호출하는 프로세스가 권한을 가질 수 없다.
.BR sched_setparam
을 호출하는 프로세스는
.IR pid
로 분류되는 프로세스의 euid나 uid와 같은 효과적인 uid가 필요하다
혹은 슈퍼유저 프로세스 여야만 한다..
.TP
.B EINVAL
매개 변수 \fIp\fR가 현제 스케줄링 정책에 맞지 않는다.
.SH 호환
POSIX.1b (formerly POSIX.4)
.SH 관련 항목
.BR sched_setscheduler (2), 
.BR sched_getscheduler (2), 
.BR sched_get_priority_max (2), 
.BR sched_get_priority_min (2), 
.BR nice (2), 
.BR setpriority (2), 
.BR getpriority (2), 
.PP
.BR sched_setscheduler (2) 
has a description of the Linux scheduling scheme.
.PP
.I Programming for the real world \- POSIX.4
by Bill O. Gallmeister, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., ISBN 1-56592-074-0
.br
.I IEEE Std 1003.1b-1993
(POSIX.1b standard)
.br
.I ISO/IEC 9945-1:1996
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 28일
