.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)setregid.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:08:49 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Portions extracted from linux/kernel/sys.c:
.\"             Copyright (C) 1991, 1992  Linus Torvalds
.\"             May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\" Changes: Fri Jul 29 10:56:01 BST 1994 by Wilf. <G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk>
.\"          Tue Aug  2 14:56:48 BST 1994 by Wilf due to change in kernel.
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 26일
.\"
.TH SETREUID 2 "2nd August 1994" "Linux 1.1.38" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
setreuid, seteuid \- 실제 혹은 유효 사용자 ID를 설정한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int setreuid(uid_t " ruid ", uid_t " euid );
.br
.BI "int seteuid(uid_t " euid );
.SH 설명
.B setreuid
는 현제 프로세스의 실제/유효한 사용자 ID를 설정한다. 특권이 없는 사용자는 유효사용자 ID
때문에 실제 사용자 ID가 바뀔런지 모른다. 

리눅스 1.1.38이전에서, 저장된 ID패러다임이
.B setreuid 
나
.B seteuid
을 사용할때는 동작하지 않았다.
1.1.38초기에는 저장된 사용자ID에서 유효한 사용자ID설정은 가능했다.

오로지 수퍼유저만이 다른 변화를 만들런지 모른다.

실제 혹은 유효한 사용자ID을 위해 \-1값을 제공하는 것은 시스템으로 하여금 ID를 그대로 남기도록한다.

현재
.BI seteuid( euid )
는 
.BI setreuid(  -1  , " euid" ) \fR
와 기능적으로 같다.

실제 사용자ID가 변하거나 유효사용자ID가 이전의 실제 사용자ID와 다르게 설정된다면, 저장된 사용자ID는 
새로운 유효사용자ID로 설정될 것이다.

.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 반환된다. 실패시, \-1이 반환되고, 
.I errno
는 적절하게 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EPERM
현재 프로세스는 수퍼유저가 아니고, (i)실제 사용자ID를 가진 유효사용자ID를 스와핑하거나 (i)
다른것의 값으로 하나를 설정하거나 (iii)저장된 사용자ID으 값으로 유효사용자ID를 설정하는것을 
지정한것 보다 다른것이 변한다.
.SH 호환
BSD 4.3 (the
.B setreuid
함수호출은 4.2BSD에서 처음 선보였다.)
.SH 관련 항목
.BR getuid (2),
.BR setuid (2)
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 26
