.\" Copyright Michael Haardt (michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de) Sat Aug 27 20:43:50 MET DST 1994
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Sep 11 19:19:05 1994 <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Mar 25 10:19:00 1996 <aeb@cwi.nl> (merged a few
.\"	tiny changes from a man page by Charles Livingston).
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 14:45:46 1996 <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.TH SETSID 2 "1994년 8월 27일" "리눅스 1.0.0" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
setsid \- 세션을 만들고 프로세스 그룹 ID를 설정한다.
.SH 사용법
.ad l
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B pid_t setsid(void);
.br
.ad b
.SH 설명
\fBsetsid()\fP 는 호출한 프로세스가 프로세스 그룹의 리더가 아니면 새로운
새션을 만든다. 호출한 프로세스는 새로운 세션의 리더이며, 새로운 프로세스 그룹의
그룹 리더가 되며, 제어 터미널을 갖지 않는다. 호출한 프로세스의 프로세스 그룹 
ID와 세션 ID는 호출한 프로세스의 PID로 설정된다. 호출한 프로세스는 단지 새로운 
프로세스 그룹과 새로운 새션의 프로세스가 된다.
.SH 반환값
호출한 프로세스의 세션 ID
.SH 에러
에러시, \-1이 리턴된다. 발생할 수 있는 유일한 에러는 EPERM이다.
이것은 어떤 프로세스의 그룹 ID와 호출한 프로세스의 PID가 같을 때이다.
즉, 
.BR setsid 는 
호출한 프로세스가 이미 프로세스 그룹 리더이면 실패한다.
.SH 주의
프로세스 그룹 리더는 프로세스의 PID와 프로세스의 그룹 ID가 같은 프로세스이다.
.BR setsid 가 
확실히 성공하기 위해서, fork후에 exit 하고, 자식은 
.BR setsid() 를
호출하면 된다.
.SH 호환
POSIX, SVr4.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR setpgid (2),
.BR setpgrp (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 4월 27일
