.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:14:13 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>
.\"   Update calling parameters to Linux 1.2.4 values.
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 3 May 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 04:05:28 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sat Jan 29 01:08:23 2000 by aeb
.\"
.TH SETUP 2 "1996년 5월 3일" "리눅스 1.2.9" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
setup \- 디바이스과 파일 시스템을 설정하고, 루트 파일 시스템을 마운트한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall0(int, setup);
.sp
.B int setup(void);
.SH 설명
.BR setup 은
.IR linux/init/main.c에서
한 번 호출된다.
이 함수는 커널에서 설정된 디바이스와 파일 시스템에 대한 초기화
함수를 부르고 루트 파일 시스템을 마운트한다.
.PP
어떤 사용자 프로세스도 
.BR setup 을 
호출할 수 없다. 
슈퍼 유저의 권한을 가지고 있는 프로세스라도 사용자 프로세스이면
.BR EPERM 
에러가 발생한다.
.SH 반환값
.BR setup 는 
항상 사용자 프로세스에게 \-1을 리턴한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EPERM
사용자 프로세스일 경우 항상.
.SH 호환
이 함수는 리눅스에 한정되므로, 포터블해야 하는 프로그램에서나 다른
프로그램에서는 절대 사용해서는 안 된다.
Linux 2.1.121 이후에, 이런 함수는 더 이상 존재하지 않는다.
호출하는 순서도 변해왔다: 
.I "void *BIOS"
단일 인자를,
어떤 때는 
.IR "int magic" 
단일 인자를 가졌다.
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 4월 27일
