.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     $Id: shutdown.2,v 1.1.1.1 2002/07/18 10:40:12 hhyoon Exp $
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:57:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:04:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\"
.TH SHUTDOWN 2 "1993년 6월 24일" "BSD Man Page" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
shutdown \- 완전 양방향 통신(full-duplex) 연결의 일부를 종료한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int shutdown(int " s ", int " how );
.SH 설명
.B shutdown 
시스템 콜은 
.IR s 와 
관련된 소켓의 완전 양방향 통신 접속에서 소켓의 일부나 전부를 닫을 수 있다.
만일
.IR how 가 
0이면, 받는 작업이 더이상 불가능 하게 되며, 
.IR how 가 
1이면, 보내는 작업이 더이상 불가능하게 된다.
만일
.IR how 가 
2라면, 보내고 받는 작업 모두 더이상 불가능하게 된다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0을 반환한다. 에러시, \-1을 반환하며
.IR errno 는 
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.TP
.B EBADF
.IR s 는 
유효한 기술자(descriptor)가 아니다.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
.IR s 는 
소켓이 아니라 파일이다.
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
지정된 소켓이 연결되지 않았다.
.SH 호환
4.4BSD (
.B shutdown
함수는 4.2BSD에서 처음으로 나타났다.)
.SH 버그
수치적
.I how 
플래그는 단일 유닉스-명령
.BR SHUT_RD , 
.BR SHUT_WR ,
그리고
.B SHUT_RDWR 
플래그에 의해 대체되어야 한다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR connect (2),
.BR socket (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 28일
