.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigblock.2	6.7 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:09:15 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Fri Aug 11 1995 by Stephen Lee <sl14@cornell.edu>
.\" Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby <mib@deakin.edu.au>
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 27일
.\" 
.TH SIGBLOCK 2 "31 August 1995" "Linux 1.3" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
sigblock, siggetmask, sigsetmask, sigmask \- 시그날 마스크 조작하기
.SH 사용법
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int sigblock(int " mask );
.sp
.B int siggetmask(void);
.sp
.BI "int sigsetmask(int " mask );
.sp
.BI "int sigmask(int " signum );
.SH 설명
이 인터페이스는 
.BR sigprocmask (2).
에 의해 진부한 것이 되어버렸다.
The 
.B sigblock
시스템 호출은
.I mask
로 분류되는 시그널을 현재 전송되는 것이 막혀있는 신호군에 첨가한다.
.PP
.B sigsetmask
시스템 호출은 막힌 신호군 전체를 
.IR mask .
로 구분되는 새로운 신호로 바꾼다.
.I mask
에서의 전송 비트가 1이면 신호가 막힌다.
.PP
현재의 막혀있는 신호군은 
.BR siggetmask .
을 사용함으로써 얻을 수 있다.
.PP
.B sigmask
매크로는 주어진
.IR signum .
를 위한 mask를 만드는데 제공된다.
.SH 반환값
.B siggetmask
는 현재 mask된 신호들을 반환한다.

.B sigsetmask 
와
.B sigblock
는 이전 mask된 신호를 반환한다.
.SH 주의
어떤 시스템 해더 파일이 포함되기 전에
.B _BSD_SOURCE
가 정의되었을 때만 이 함수의 기본형을 사용할 수 있다. 
.PP
.B SIGKILL
나
.B SIGSTOP
를 막을 순 없다.
\- 이 제한은 시스템에 강요되었다.
.SH 호환
4.4BSD. 이 함수 호출은 BSD 4.3에서 나타나고, 외면 당했다.
새 프로그램에선 POSIX signal facilities를 사용한다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR kill (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 27일
