.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigpause.2	6.6 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:09:26 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby <mib@deakin.edu.au>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:07:56 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 26일
.\"
.TH SIGPAUSE 2 "1993년 7월 23일" "리눅스 1.3" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
sigpause \- 블록화된 시그널을 자동으로 릴리즈하고 인터럽트 대기한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int sigpause(int " sigmask );
.SH 설명
이 인터페이스는 
.BR sigsuspend (2)
때문에 쓰이지 않는다.

.B sigpause
는 masked signal의 설정을 위해 
.I sigmask
를 할당하고, 시그널이 도착하길 기다린다; 반환시 
masked signal 설정은 재저장된다.
.PP
.I sigmask
는 대개 어떠한 시그널도 블록화되지 않은 것을 나타내도록 0이다.
.B sigpause
은 항상 
.I errno
가 
.BR EINTR
로 설정된 \-1을 돌려주는 인터럽트에 의해 종료된다.
.SH 호환
4.4BSD. 
.B sigpause
함수 호출은 4.3BSD에서만 나타난다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR sigsuspend (2),
.BR kill (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR sigblock (2),
.BR sigvec (2)
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>, 2000년 7월 26일
