.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:09:03 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 26일
.\"
.TH SIGRETURN 2 "21 August 1995" "Linux 1.3.20" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
sigreturn \- 신호 제어기와 클린업 스텍 프레임으로부터 반환
.SH 사용법
.BI "int sigreturn(unsigned long " __unused );
.SH 설명
리눅스 커널이 신호 제어기를 위한 스텍 프레임을 생성할 때.
.B sigreturn
로의 호출은 신호 제어기가 
.B sigreturn
을 리턴상에 호출하기위해
스텍 프레임에 삽입된다.
.B sigreturn
에 삽입된 호출은 신호로 인해 중단되었던 곳에서부터 프로세스를 다시 시작하기위해 스텍을 지운다.
.SH 반환값
.B sigreturn
은 반환값을 가지지 않는다..
.SH 경고
The
.B sigreturn
호출은 신호 제어기를 사용하기위해 커널에 의해 사용된다.
이것은 
.B 절대
직접 호출할 수 없다. 게다가, 
.I __unused
독립 변수의 특별한 사용은 구조에 따라 바뀐다.
.SH 호환
.B sigreturn
는 리눅스에 특화 되었고, 이식을 목적으로 하는 프로그램에는 쓰지 말아야 한다.

.SH 파일.B sigreturn
upon return. 
/usr/src/linux/arch/i386/kernel/signal.c
.br
/usr/src/linux/arch/alpha/kernel/entry.S
.SH 관련 항목
.BR kill (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR signal (7)
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX, 2000년 7월 26일

