.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:09:26 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" FIXME -- Error conditions need to be documented
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH SIGVEC 2 "1995년 8월 31일" "리눅스 1.3" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
sigvec \- BSD 소프트웨어 시그널장치.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <bsd/signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int sigvec(int " sig ", struct sigvec *" vec ", struct sigvec *" ovec );
.SH 설명
이 인터페이스는 sigaction (2)때문에 잘 쓰이지 않는다.
.PP
리눅스에서 sigvec는 sigaction를 위한 #define'd이고, BSD sigvec인터페이스의 가장
가깝게 접근했다.
.SH 호환
BSD, SVr4
.SH 관련 항목
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR signal (2)
.SH 역자
ASPLINUX,2000년 7월 29일
