.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:11:53 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH IPC 2 "1995년 5월 15일" "Linux 1.2.4" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
socketcall \- 소켓 시스템 콜들
.SH 사용법
.BI "int socketcall(int" " call, " "unsigned long *" "args);"
.SH 설명
.B socketcall
은 소켓 시스템 콜들을 위한 일반적인 커널 엔트리 포인터이다.
.I call
은 호출할 소켓 함수를 결정한다.
.I args
는 적당한 호출에 전달될 실제 인자를 포함하는 블럭을 가리킨다.
.PP
사용자 프로그램은 사용 이름들로 적당한 함수들을 호출해야 한다.
단지 표준 라이브러리 수행자나 해커들만이 
.BR socketcall 를
알 필요가 있다.

.SH 호환
이 함수는 리눅스에 의존하며 호환성을 염두에 둔 프로그램에서는 사용해서는 
안된다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR accept (2),
.BR bind (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR getpeername (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR getsockopt (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR recv (2),
.BR recvfrom (2),
.BR send (2),
.BR sendto (2),
.BR setsockopt (2),
.BR shutdown (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR socketpair (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 8월 7일
