.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)socketpair.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:49:44 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:15:39 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH SOCKETPAIR 2 "1993년 6월 24일" "BSD Man Page" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
socketpair \- 열결된 소켓 쌍을 만든다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int socketpair(int " d ", int " type ", int " protocol ", int " sv [2]);
.SH 설명
.N socketpair
시스템 콜은 
옵션으로 지정한 
.IR protocol 을 사용하여 
지정한 도메인 
.IR d 에서
지정한
.IR type 의 
접속된 소켓의 이름없는 쌍을 만든다.
새 소켓 생성시 참조하는 기술자(descriptor)는 
IR sv[0] 과
.IR sv[1] 으로 
반환된다.
두 개의 소켓은 구별할 수 없다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0을 반환한다. 에러시, \-1을 반환하며,
.IR errno 는 
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EMFILE
너무 많은 기술자가 이 프로세스에 의해 사용되었다.
.TP
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
지정한 주소 지정 방식(address family)이 머신에서 지원되지 않는다.
.TP
.B EPROTONOSUPPORT
지정된 프로토콜이 이 머신에서 지원되지 않는다.
.TP
.B EOPNOSUPPORT
지정된 프로토콜이 소켓쌍 생성을 지원하지 않는다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
주소
.IR sv 가 
프로세스 주소 공간의 유효 부분을 가리키지 않는다.
.SH 호환
4.4BSD (
.B socketpair
함수는 4.2BSD에서 나타났다). 일반적으로 BSD 소켓 층(System V 변종을
포함하여)의 클론(clone)을 지원하는 non-BSD 시스템으로나 non-BSD 
시스템으로 포팅이 가능하다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR pipe (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 26일
