.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:26:24 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)]
.\"
.TH STIME 2 "1993년 6월 24일" "Linux 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
stime \- 시간을 설정한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "int stime(time_t *" t );
.SH 설명
\fBstime\fP은 시스템 개념(idea)의 시간과 날짜를 설정한다.
\fIt\fP가 지정하는 시간은 00:00:00 GMT January 1, 1970 이후의 초로 
계산된다.
\fBstime()\fP은 단지 슈퍼 사용자(root)만이 사용할수 있다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0을 반환한다. 에러시, \-1을 반환하며,
.IR errno 는 
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EPERM
호출 프로세스는 슈퍼 사용자가 아니다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, X/OPEN
.SH 관련 항목
.BR date (1)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 26일
