.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:02:47 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 15 Apr 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Added reference to `bdflush(2)'.
.\" Modified 960414 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>:
.\"   Added the fact that since 1.3.20 sync actually waits.
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:27:07 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH SYNC 2 "1995년 4월 15일" "리눅스 1.3.88" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
sync \- 버퍼 캐쉬를 디스크에 쓴다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int sync(void);
.SH 설명
.BR sync 는 
inode들을 버퍼로 보내고, 그후 이 버퍼를 디스크에 쓴다.
.SH 반환값
.B sync는 
항상 0을 리턴한다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH 버그
표준 스펙에 따르면(e.q., SVID), 
\fBsync()\fP는
쓰기를 스케줄하고, 실제 쓰기가 행해지기 전에 리턴할 것이다.
그러나, 버전 1.3.20 이후의 리눅스는 실제로는 기다린다.
(그러나 여전히 데이터 무결성을 보장하지는 않는다: 요즘의 디스크는
커다란 캐쉬를 가지고 있다.)
.SH 관련 항목
.BR bdflush (2),
.BR fsync (2),
.BR fdatasync (2),
.BR update (8),
.BR sync (8)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 4월 30일
