.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:13:40 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Additions by Joseph S. Myers <jsm28@cam.ac.uk>, 970909
.\"
.TH TIME 2 "1997년 9월 9일" "리눅스 2.0.30" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
time \- 초 단위로 시간을 얻는다. 
.SH 사용법
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "time_t time(time_t *" t );
.SH 설명
\fBtime\fP 는 시간을 초 단위로 계산하여 Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970)
이후의 시간을 리턴한다.

.IR t 가 
NULL이 아니라면, 
반환값은 항상 
.IR t 가 
가리키는 메모리에 저장된다.
.SH 반환값
성공하면, Epoch 이후의 시간이 초 딘위로 리턴된다.
에러이면, ((time_t)\-1)이 리턴되며, \fIerrno\fP는 적당한 값으로
설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I t 가 
가리키는 곳은 접근할 수 있는 메모리 영역을 넘어선다.
.SH 주의
POSIX.1은 
.IR seconds since the Epoch 를
지정된 시간과 Epoch사이의 초 단위 값으로써 정의한다. 
이것은 윤초(leap seconds)는 무시되며 모든 년수를 4로 나누어 
윤년인지를 보는 기본 변환 공식에 따라 UTC를 바꾼 것이다.
이 값은 그 시간과 Epoch 사이의 실제 초 시간과는 같지 않다.
왜냐하면, 윤초(leap seconds) 때문에, clock 시간이 표준과 동기화되어 있지 
않기 때문이다.
이것은 Epoch 이후의 시간값을 일관되게 다루기 위한 의도이다:
좀더 이론적 근거를 원한다면 POSIX.1 Annex B 2.2.2를 참조해라.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.br
BSD 4.3에서, 이 시스템 콜은 
.BR gettimeofday (2)
때문에 구식이 되었다.
POSIX는 어떤 에러 상태도 지정하지 않는다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR ctime (3),
.BR date (1),
.BR ftime (3),
.BR gettimeofday (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 1일
