.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:29:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 961203 by aeb@cwi.nl
.\"
.TH TIMES 2 "1993년 7월 24일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
times \- 프로세스 시간을 알아낸다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sys/times.h>
.sp
.BI "clock_t times(struct tms *" buf );
.SH 설명
.BR times 는 
.IR buf 에 
현재 프로세스의 시간을 저장한다.

.IR "struct tms" 는 
.IR /usr/include/sys/times.h 에 
다음과 같이 정의 되어 있다:
.sp
.nf
struct tms {
.in 20
clock_t tms_utime;  /* 사용자 시간 */
clock_t tms_stime;  /* 시스템 시간 */
clock_t tms_cutime; /* 자식들의 사용자 시간 */
clock_t tms_cstime; /* 자식들의 시스템 시간 */
};
.in 10
.fi
.PP
.BR times 는 
시스템이 부팅된 후 경과한 clock ticks의 수를 리턴한다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR time (1),
.BR getrusage (2),
.BR wait (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 5월 2일
