.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:53:43 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\"
.TH UNAME 2 "1993년 7월 24일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
uname \- 현재 커널에 관한 이름과 정보를 얻어온다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sys/utsname.h>
.sp
.BI "int uname(struct utsname *" buf );
.SH 설명
.BR uname 은
.IR buf 가 
가리키는 구조체에 시스템 정보를 리턴한다.
.I utsname 
구조체는 다음과 같다.
.IR <sys/utsname.h> :
.br
.nf
.in 10
struct utsname {
.in 22
char sysname[SYS_NMLN];
char nodename[SYS_NMLN];
char release[SYS_NMLN];
char version[SYS_NMLN];
char machine[SYS_NMLN];
.in 10
#ifdef _GNU_SOURCE
.in 22
char domainname[SYS_NMLN];
.in 10
#endif
};
.fi
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며 
.IR errno 가
적절한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR buf 가
유효하지 않다.
.SH 호환
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN
.PP
.I domainname 변수는
GNU 확장이다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR uname (1),
.BR getdomainname (2),
.BR gethostname (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 4월 27일
