.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Updated names and version numbers to Linux 1.2.4 / man-pages-1.6.
.\"   Moved unimplemented kernel calls to new man page.
.\"   Created new man page for obsolete calls, so don't talk about them here.
.\"   Removed BUGS as they've been fixed.
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@duracef.shout.net>:
.\"   Updated for Linux 1.3.6 / man-pages-1.7.
.\" aeb, 950825: all system calls have been documented!
.\" aeb, 960414: this is true again.
.\" "
.TH UNDOCUMENTED 2 "1996년 4월 12일" "리눅스 2.0.34" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
none \- 문서화되지 않은 시스템 콜
.SH 사용법
문서화되지 않은 시스템 콜
.SH 설명
리눅스 2.0.34에서 
.IR /usr/include/asm/unistd.h 에 
나열된 164개의 시스템 콜이 있다.
이 맨페이지는 커널에 구현되었지만 아직 맨페이지로 문서화되지 않은 시스템 콜을
나열한다. 이런 시스템 콜은 몇몇 개는 libc 헤더 파일에 프로토타입도 없다.
.SH 요청
이런 시스템 콜에 관한 정보를 가지고 있다면 커널 소스 코드를 살펴보고 맨페이지를
작성하여 (다른 섹션 2 맨페이지와 유사한 형식으로)
.BR aeb@cwi.nl 로 
보내주길 바란다. 다음 리눅스 문서화 프로젝트의 맨페이지 발표시에 포함될 것이다.
.SH 상황
현재는 문서화되지 않은 시스템 콜은 없다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR obsolete (2),
.BR unimplemented (2)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2000년 4월 19일
