.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Updated, aeb, 980612
.\"
.TH UNIMPLEMENTED 2 "1998년 6월 12일" "Linux 2.0" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
afs_syscall, break, ftime, gtty, lock, mpx, phys, prof, profil,
stty, ulimit \- 수행되지 않는 시스템 콜들
.SH 사용법
수행되지 않는 시스템 콜들.
.SH 설명
이 시스템 콜들은 리눅스 2.0 커널에서 수행되지 않는다.
.SH 반환값
이들 시스템 콜들은 항상 \-1을 반환하며
.I errno
는
.BR ENOSYS 으로
설정된다.
.SH 주의
.IR ftime (3),
.IR profil (3)
그리고
.IR ulimit (3)는
라이브러리 함수들로 수행된다.

.IR ioperm (2),
.IR iopl (2),
.IR ptrace (2)
그리고
.IR vm86 (2)와 
같은 시스템 콜들은 단지 몇몇 아키텍쳐에서만 존재한다.
.IR ipc (2)
와
.IR {create,init,delete}_module (2)
같은 몇몇 시스템 콜들은 단지 리눅스 커널에서 이 함수들을 지원하도록 
컴파일되었을때만 존재한다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR obsolete (2),
.BR undocumented (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 7월 2일
