.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:34:48 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:59:17 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH USELIB 2 "1993년 7월 24일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
uselib \- 공유 라이브러리를 선택한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int uselib(const char *" library );
.SH 설명
\fBuselib\fP는 호출한 프로세스에서 사용한 공유 라이브러리를 선택한다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되고, 
.IR errno 가
적절하게 설정된다.
.SH 에러

.BR open "(2) 과 " mmap (2)에서 
리턴되는 모든 에러 코드와 더불어 다음의 것이 리턴될 수 있다:

.TP
.B ENOEXEC
.IR libray 로 
선택한 파일이 실행가능하지 않거나 올바른 매직(magic) 넘버를 갖지 않는다.
.TP
.B EACCES
.IR library 로
선택한 라이브러리가 읽기가능하지 않다.
.SH 호환
\fBuselib()\fP는 리눅스 한정적이기 때문에 포터블하게 하려는 프로그램에서는
사용해서는 않된다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR ar (1),
.BR gcc (1),
.BR ld (1),
.BR ldd (1),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR ld.so (8)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2000년 4월 19일
