.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Created   Wed Aug  9 1995      Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 23:52:21 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX    2000년 7월 26일
.\"
.TH USTAT 2 "1995년 8월 9일" "리눅스 1.3.16" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
ustat \- 파일 시스템 통계를 얻는다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.BI "int ustat(dev_t " dev ", struct ustat * " ubuf );
.SH 설명
.B ustat
는 마운트된 파일 시스템에 대한 정보를 반환한다.
.I dev
마운트된 파일 시스템을  포함한 번호확인 장치이다.
.I ubuf
는 다음을 포함하는 ustat구조를 가리킨다:

.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 7
.ta 8n 16n 32n
daddr_t	f_tfree;	/* Total free blocks */
ino_t	f_tinode;	/* Number of free inodes */
char	f_fname[6];	/* Filsys name */
char	f_fpack[6];	/* Filsys pack name */
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP

마지막 두 필드(f_fname과 f_fpack)는 구현되지 않고, 항상 null문자로 가득차 있다.
.SH 반환값
성공시 0을 반환하고 에러시 \-1이 반환된다. 그리고
.I errno
는 적절하게 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I dev
는 마운트된 파일 시스템을 포함한 장치와 관련없다.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I ubuf
는 당신이 접근가능한 주소공간외의 공간을 가리킨다.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
The mounted file system referenced by
.I dev
가 참조하는 마운트된 파일 시스템은 이러한 연산이나 1.3.16이전 리눅스 모든 버전에서는 지원하지 않는다.
1.3.16.
.SH 주의
.B ustat
는 단지 호환성을 위해 제공된다. 모든 새로운 프로그램은 
.BR statfs (2)
을 사용해야한다.
.SH 호환
SVr4.  SVr4 documents additional error conditions ENOLINK, ECOMM, and EINTR
but has no ENOSYS condition.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR statfs (2),
.BR stat (2)
