.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:03:05 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.TH UTIME 2 "1995년 6월 10일" "리눅스" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
utime, utimes \- inode에 대한 접근/수정 시간을 변경한다.

.SH 사용법
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <utime.h>
.sp
.BI "int utime(const char *" filename ", struct utimbuf *" buf );
.sp 2
.B #include <sys/time.h>
.sp
.BI "int utimes(char *" filename ", struct timeval *" tvp );
.SH 설명
.BR utime 은 
.IR filename 으로 
지정된 inode의 접근 시간과 수정 시간을
.IR buf 의 
.IR actime 과 
.IR modtime 
필드값으로 각각 변경한다.
.IR buf 가 
.BR NULL 이면, 
파일의 접근 시간과 수정 시간은 현재 시간으로 설정된다.
.I utimbuf 
구조체는 다음과 같다:

.RS
.nf
struct utimbuf {
        time_t actime;  /* 접근 시간 */
        time_t modtime; /* 변경 시간 */
};
.fi
.RE

리눅스 DLL 4.4.1 라이브러리에서, 
.BR utimes 는 
단지 
.BR utime 의 
래퍼(wrapper)이다: 
.IR tvp[0].tv_sec 은 
.IR actime 이고,
.IR tvp[1].tv_sec 은 
.IR modtime 이다.
timeval 구조체는 다음과 같다:
.RS
.nf
struct timeval {
        long    tv_sec;         /* 초 */
        long    tv_usec;        /* 마이크로초 */
};
.fi
.RE
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0이 리턴된다. 에러시, \-1이 리턴되며, 
.IR errno 는 
적당한 값으로 설정된다.
.SH 에러
다른 에러들도 일어날 수 있다.
.TP
.B EACCES
파일을 쓰기위한 허가권이 거부됐다.
.TP
.B ENOENT
.IR filename 이 
존재하지 않는다.
.SH 호환
.BR utime :
SVr4, SVID, POSIX.  
SVr4 문서에서 추가된 에러 상태들은 EFAULT, EINTR, ELOOP, EMULTIHOP, ENAMETOOLONG, ENOLINK, ENOTDIR, ENOLINK, ENOTDIR, EPERM, EROFS이다.
.br
.BR utimes :
BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR stat (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2000년 4월 30일
