.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH VHANGUP 2 "1993년 7월 24일" "리눅스 0.99.11" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
vhangup \- 가상으로 현재 tty를 중지시킨다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int vhangup(void);
.SH 설명
.B vhangup
는 가상으로 현재의 터미널을 중지시킨다. 이 호출은 로긴시 tty를 갖게될 
다른 사용자를 위해 재설정된다.
.SH 반환값
성공시, 0을 반환하고, 실패시 -1을 반환한후 errno을 적절하게 설정한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EPERM
사용자가 수퍼유저가 아니다.
.SH 호환
이 호출은 리눅스만이 사용하며, 다른 프로그램에서는 사용할 수 없다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR init (8)
