.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Copyright 1997 Andries E. Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH VM86 2 "1997년 7월 17일" "리눅스 2.1.15" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
vm86old, vm86 \- 가상 8086 모드로 들어간다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <sys/vm86.h>
.sp
.BI "int vm86old(struct vm86_struct * " info );
.sp
.BI "int vm86(unsigned long " fn ", struct vm86plus_struct * " v86 );
.SH 설명
.BR vm86 
시스템 콜은
리눅스 0.97p2에서 소개되었다. 리눅스 2.1.15와 2.0.28에서 이것이
.BR vm86old 로
이름이 바뀌고, 새로운
.BR vm86 이
소개되었다. `struct vm86_struct'의 정의는 1.1.8과 1.1.9에서 변경되었다.
.LP
이 시스템 콜은 프로세스가 VM86 모드로 들어가게 한다. 그리고 
.BR dosemu 에서
사용된다.
.SH 반환값
성공시 0이 리턴된다. 에러시 \-1이 리턴되고
.IR errno 가 
적절히 설정된다.
.SH 에러
(\fBvm86old\fP의 경우)
.TP
.B EPERM
Saved kernel stack exists. (This is a kernel sanity check; the saved
stack should only exist within vm86 mode itself.)
.SH 호환
이 시스템 콜은 인텔 기반의 리눅스에 한정되어 있다. 이식 가능한 프로그램에서는
사용해서는 안된다.
.SH 역자
최윤용 <markboy@secsm.org>, 2000년 4월 22일
