.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:06:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH GROUP 5 "December 29 1992" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
group \- user group file
.SH 설명
\fB/etc/group\fP은 사용자들이 속한 그룹을 규정하는 ASCII 파일이다.
한 줄에 한명씩 있고, 각 줄마다 형식을 가지고 있다:
.sp
.RS
group_name:passwd:GID:user_list
.RE
.sp
각 부분이 뜻하는 것은 아래와 같다:
.IP group_name
그룹의 이름.
.IP password
(암호화 된)그룹 패스워드. 이 부분이 비어있다면, 
패스워드가 필요 없는 것이다.
.IP GID
숫자로 된 그룹ID.
.IP user_list
그룹 구성원 모두의 사용자 이름,콤마로 구분된다.
.SH 파일
/etc/group
.SH 관련 항목
.BR login "(1), " newgrp "(1), " passwd (5)
