.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:08:16 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 17:47:19 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH MOTD 5 "1992년 12월 29일" "리눅스" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
motd \- 오늘의 메시지 
.SH 설명
\fB/etc/motd\fP의 내용은 
.BR login (1)
에서 로그인이 성공한 후 로그인 쉘이 실행되기 직전에 보여준다.

"motd"는 "오늘의 메시지(message of the day)"를 의미한다. 이 파일은 (모든 유저에게 메일을 보내는 것 보다 디스크 용량을 적게 차지하기 때문에) 전통적으로 사용되어져 왔다. 
.SH 파일
/etc/motd
.SH "관련 항목"
.BR login (1)
.BR issue (5)
.SH 역자
이준기 <joongee@nownuri.net>, 2000년 4월 19일

