.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Wed Oct 18 20:23:54 MET 1995  Martin Schulze  <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\"	* first released
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH PROTOCOLS 5 "18 October 1995" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
protocols \- 프로토콜 정의 파일 
.SH 설명
이 파일은 평이한 아스키 파일로, TCP/IP 하위시스템에서 사용가능한 다양한 DARPA 
인터넷 프로토콜들을 설명한다. 이는  ARPA 참조 파일내에 숫자를 사용하거나, 추측하는것 
대신에 신중하게 고려되어야 한다. 이러한 숫자들은 IP 헤더의 프로토콜 필드에서 일어난다. 
이 파일은 그대로 놔두어야 한다. 왜냐하면, 변경을 하면, 부정확한 IP 패키지가 초래될 수 있기 
때문이다. 프로토콜 숫자들과 이름들은 DDN 네트워크 정보 센터에 의해 지정된다. 
각 행은 다음의 형식을 갖는다. 
.RS
.I 프로토콜 숫자 앨리어스...
.RE
필드들은 스페이스 혹은 탭키로 범위를 정한다. 빈 행들과, #로 시작하는 행들은 무시된다. 
남겨진 행들은 #의 발생에서 또한 무시된다. 
필드 설명은 다음과 같다. 
.TP
.I protocol
the native name for the protocol. For example ip, .
프로토콜의 주된 이름. 예 :tcp or udp
.TP
.I number
ip 헤더에 보이는 프로토콜에 대한 공식적인 숫자. 
.TP
.I aliases
프로토콜에 대한 선택적인 앨리어스 
.LP
이 파일은 Yellow Pages/NIS or BIND/Hesoid와 같은 
네트워크 수준의 네이밍 서비스를 통해 배포될 수 있다. 


.SH 파일
.TP
.I /etc/protocols
프로토콜 정의 파일
.SH 관련 항목
.BR getprotoent (3)

Guide to Yellow Pages Service

Guide to BIND/Hesiod Service
