.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Thu May 20 20:45:48 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:11:07 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Nov 21 10:49:38 1993 by Michael Haardt
.\" Modified Sun Feb 26 15:09:15 1995 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH SHELLS 5 "November 21, 1993" "" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
shells \- 유효한 login 쉘의 패스명
.SH 설명
.B /etc/shells
는 유효한 login 쉘의 절대 경로명을 가진 텍스트 파일이다.
이 파일은 
.BR chsh (1)
에 의해 참조되고, 다른 프로그램에 의한 참조도 가능하다.
.BR

사용자가 정상적인 사용자인지를 판단하기 위해, 이 파일을 참조하는 프로그램이 있다는 사실을 유의하라. 예: ftp 데몬은 전통적으로 이 파일에 포함되어 있지 않은 쉘을 통한 사용자들의 접근은 허락하지 않는다.
.SH 예제
.B /etc/shells
는 다음과 같은 패스명을 가진다:
.sp
.RS
.B /bin/sh
.br
.B /bin/csh
.RE
.SH 파일
.I /etc/shells
.SH 관련 항목
.BR chsh (1)
.SH 역자 
배성훈 <plodder@kldp.org>, 2000년 5월 13일
