.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:17:50 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Thu Oct 19 21:25:21 MET 1995 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 17:47:19 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond
.\" <esr@thyrsus.com>xk
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH TTYTYPE 5 "1993년 7월 24일" "리눅스" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
ttytype \- 기본 터미널타입을 맵핑하기위한 터미널 장치
.SH 설명
.I /etc/ttytype
파일은 tty행을 가진 termcap/terminfo 터미널 타입명과 일치한다.
각 행은 터미널 타입뒤에 공백이 오고, 마지막으로 
tty명(
.IR /dev/ ")
없는 장치명)으로 되어있다.

이런 점은 사용자의 현재 tty를 위한 기본 터미널명의 환경변수 TERM을 설정하는
.BR tset (1)
프로그램에 의해 사용된다.

이런 도구는 유닉스 미니컴퓨터에서 프로그램에 의하지 않고 배선에 의한
character-cell 터미널 기능을 지원하는 전통적인 시간-공유 환경을 위해 
디자인되었다.

.SH 예제
전형적으로
.I /etc/ttytype
는:
.RS
.sp
con80x25 tty1
.br
vt320 ttys0
이다.
.sp
.RE
.SH 파일
.TP
.I /etc/ttytype
tty 정의 파일.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR getty "(1), " terminfo "(5), " termcap "(5)"





