.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:46:21 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH ABORT 3  "April 12, 1993" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
abort \- 비정상적인 프로그램 종료 발생
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.B void abort(void);
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBabort()\fP 함수는 SIGABORT 시그널를 받지 못하거나 시그널 핸들러로 변환되면 비정상적인 프로그램을 종료시키는 것이다.

\fBabort()\fP 함수로 프로그램을 종료시키면 열려있는 모든 스트림이 닫힌다.
.PP
SIGABORT 기능이 막히거나 무시되면, \fBabort()\fP
함수 역시 이것을 무시한다.
.SH "반환값"
\fBabort()\fP 함수는 반환값을 가지지않는다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "관련 항목"
.BR sigaction "(2), " exit (3)
.SH 번역
한글 Manpage 프로젝트 (http://man.kldp.org) 2005년 1월 30일
