.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)alloca.3	5.1 (Berkeley) 5/2/91
.\"
.\" Converted Mon Nov 29 11:05:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 23:41:56 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH ALLOCA 3  "29 November 1993" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
alloca \- 메모리 할당
.SH 사용법
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "void *alloca( size_t " size );
.SH 
.B alloca
함수는 스텍 프레임의
.I 크기
를 할당한다. 이 일시적인 공간은
반환될때 자동적으로 없어진다.
.SH "변환 값"
.B alloca
함수는 할당된 공간의 시작점의 포인터 값을 출력한다. 
할당에 실패하면
.B NULL
포인터를 반환한다.
.SH "호환"
.B alloca
함수는 32v, pwb, pwb.2, 3bsd과, 4bsd에서 보인다.
이것에 대한 mam page는 BSD 4.3에 있다..
.SH 버그
.B alloca
함수는 기계에 따라 다르다.
.SH 관련 사항
.BR brk "(2), " pagesize "(2), " calloc "(3), " malloc "(3), " realloc (3)
