.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:43:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH ASIN 3  "June 8, 1993" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
asin \- 아크 사인 함수 
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double asin(double " x );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBasin()\fP 함수는 \fIx\fP의 아크 사인 값을 계산한다; 계산된
결과의 사인 값이 \fIx\fP이다.\fIx\fP 의 범위가 \-1에서 1사이
를 벗어나면, \fBasin()\fP은 멈추고 \fIerrno\fP 이 실행된다.
.SH "변환 값"
\fBasin()\fP 아크사인값을 라디안으로 반환한다. 그리고 그 값은
수학적으로-PI/2이상 PI/2이하 이다.
.SH "에러"
.TP
.B EDOM
\fIx\fP가 범위를 벗어났을 때 발생한다.
.SH "호환"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "관련 자료"
.BR acos "(3), " atan "(3), " atan2 "(3), " cos "(3), " sin "(3), " tan (3)
