.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:42:42 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 23:44:11 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH ASSERT 3  "April 4, 1993" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
assert \- expression 이 거짓인 경우 프로그램 종료
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <assert.h>
.sp
.BI "void assert (int " "expression" ");"
.fi
.SH 설명
.B <assert.h>
가 마지막으로 포함될 시점에
매크로
.B NDEBUG
가 정의되어 있으면, 매크로
.B assert()
는 아무 코드도 생성하지 않으며 따라서 아무 것도 하지 않는다.
그렇지않고, (즉,
.B NDEBUG
가 정의되어있지 않고)
.I expression
이 거짓이면, 매크로
.B assert()
는 에러 메시지를 표준 출력으로 출력하고,
.B abort()
를 호출하여 프로그램을 종료한다.
.LP
이 매크로는 프로그래머가 버그를 잡는데에 쓰인다. 실제로  "assertion failed in file foo.c, function
do_bar(), line 1287" 와 같은 메시지는 일반 사용자에겐 아무 소용이 없다.
.SH 반환값
반환값을 갖지 않는다.
.SH 호환
ISO9899 (ANSI C)
.SH 버그
.B assert()
는 매크로 구현된다.;
.B assert()
로 검사하는 expression이 부작용을 낳는다면,
프로그램의 실행은
.B NDEBUG
가 정의 되어 있느냐에 따라 달라진다. 이런 점 때문에 디버깅 모드에서는 사라지는 Heisenbugs(불확정성 버그)를 만들 수 있다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR exit "(3), " abort (3)
.SH 번역
한글 Manpage 프로젝트 (http://man.kldp.org) 2005년 1월 30일
