.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:36:52 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:40:02 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH ATEXIT 3  "14 September 1997" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
atexit \- 정상적인 프로그램 종료시 호출될 함수 등록
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int atexit(void (*" function )(void));
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBatexit()\fP함수는 
.BR exit (3)
를 통해서나, 프로그램의 \fBmain\fP으로부터의 반환 값을 통해서
프로그램이 끝났을 때 호출 될 \fIfunction\fP을 등록하는 것이다.
그렇게 등록된 함수는 그것들이 등록된 반대 순서로 호출된다; 
어떤 변수도 지나치지 않는다.
.SH 반환값
\fBatexit()\fP함수는 성공했을 경우 0을 반환한다. 그렇지 않으면
\-1 값을 반환한다; \fIerrno\fP 은 실행되지 않는다..
.SH 호환
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899 
.SH 관련 항목
.BR exit "(3), " on_exit (3)
