.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:39:24 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:39:22 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH ATOF 3  "March 29, 1993" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
atof \- 문자열을 double로 변환
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "double atof(const char *" nptr );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBatof()\fP 함수는 \fInptr\fP로 지정된 스트링의 최초 분할을
double로 변환한다. 
.sp
.RS
.B strtod(nptr, (char **)NULL);
.RE
.sp
와 같은 효과를 발휘한다. \fBatof()\fP가 에러를 발견했을 경우만.
.SH 반환값
변환된 값.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH 관련 항목
.BR atoi "(3), " atol "(3), " strtod "(3), " strtol "(3), " strtoul (3)
