.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:36:50 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 23:47:36 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH BCMP 3  "April 9, 1993" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
bcmp \- 바이트 문자열 비교
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int bcmp(const void *" s1 ", const void *" s2 ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBbcmp()\fP 함수는 \fIs1\fP and \fIs2\fP 스트링의 
처음 \fIn\fP바이트를 비교한다.
두 스트링이 같으면, 
\fBbcmp()\fP 는 0을 반환하고, 그렇지 않으면 non-zero result를
반환한다.  
\fIn\fP이 0이면, 두게의 스트링은 같은 것이다.
.SH 반환값
\fBbcmp()\fP 함수는 두 스트링이 같으면 0을 반환하고,
그렇지 않으면 non-zero result를 반환한다..
.SH 호환
4.3BSD.  This function is deprecated -- use
.BR memcmp
in new programs.  
.SH 관련 항목
.BR memcmp "(3), " strcasecmp "(3), " strcmp (3),
.BR strcoll "(3), " strncmp "(3), " strncasecmp (3)
