.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:41:16 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:35:16 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH BSEARCH 3  "March 29, 1993" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
bsearch \- 정렬된 배열의 이진 탐색
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "void *bsearch(const void *" key ", const void *" base ", size_t " nmemb ,
.RS
.BI "size_t " size ", int (*" compar ")(const void *, const void *));
.RE
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBbsearch()\fP 함수는 \fInmemb\fP 오브젝트의 어레이를 찾는다,
그것의 최초 구성은 \fIkey\fP로 지정된 오브젝트에 해당하는 구성으로, \fIbase\fP에
의해 지정된다. 각 어레이 구성의 크기는 \fIsize\fP로 지정된다.
.PP
어레이의 내용은 \fIcompar\fP와 관련된 비교 기능을 이용하여 상방정렬 되어야한다.
\fIcompar\fP 루틴은 \fIkey\fP를 지정하는 것과 어레이의 구성을 지정하는 
두개의 변수를 가진다. 그리고 이것은\fIkey\fP오브젝트가 찾아지면 
0보다 작거나 큰 정수를 반환해야 한다.
.SH 반환값
\fBbsearch()\fP 함수는 어레이에서 맞는 구성 요소를 잦아 그 포인터를 
반환한다. 만약 맞는게 없다면 널을 반환한다. 키에 해당하는 구성요소가 여러 개 
있다면, 반환되는 요소는 특별히 지정되지 않는다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH 관련 항목
.BR qsort (3)
