.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 13:06:15 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:30:40 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH BSTRING 3  "April 12, 1993" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
bcmp, bcopy, bzero, memccpy, memchr, memcmp, memcpy, memfrob, memmem, 
memmove, memset \- 바이트 문자열 조작
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int bcmp(const void *" s1 ", const void *" s2 ", int " n );
.sp
.BI "void bcopy(const void *" src ", void *" dest ", int " n );
.sp
.BI "void bzero(void *" s ", int " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memccpy(void *" dest ", const void *" src ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memchr(const void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "int memcmp(const void *" s1 ", const void *" s2 ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memcpy(void *" dest ", const void *" src ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memfrob(void *" s ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memmem(const void *" needle ", size_t " needlelen ,
.RS
.BI "const void *" haystack ", size_t " haystacklen );
.RE
.sp
.BI "void *memmove(void *" dest ", const void *" src ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memset(void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH 설명
바이트 문자열 함수는 널이 아닌 문자열의 연산을 수행한다.
널인 경우는 끝낸다. 각 함수에 대한 설명은 각각의 mam page를 참고하자.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR bcmp "(3), " bcopy "(3), " bzero "(3), " memccpy "(3), " memchr (3),
.BR memcmp "(3), " memcpy "(3), " memfrob "(3), " memmem (3),
.BR memmove "(3), " memset (3)
