.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:29:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH BYTEORDER 3  "1993년 4월 15일" "BSD" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
htonl, htons, ntohl, ntohs \-호스트와 네트웍 바이트 순서 사이로 값들을 바꾼다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned long int htonl(unsigned long int " hostlong );
.sp
.BI "unsigned short int htons(unsigned short int " hostshort );
.sp
.BI "unsigned long int ntohl(unsigned long int " netlong );
.sp
.BI "unsigned short int ntohs(unsigned short int " netshort );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBhtonl()\fP 함수는 long 정수형 \fIhostlong\fP을 호스트 바이트 순서에서 
네트웍 바이트 순서로 바꾼다.
.PP
\fBhtons()\fP 함수는 short 정수형 \fIhostshort\fP을 호스트 바이트 순서에서
네트웍 바이트 순서로 바꾼다.
.PP
\fBntohl()\fP 함수는 long 정수형 \fInetlong\fP를 네트웍 바이트 순서에서 호스트
바이트 순서로 바꾼다.
.PP
\fBntohs()\fP 함수는 short 정수형 \fInetshort\fP를 네트웍 바이트 순서에서
호스트 바이트 순서로 바꾼다.
.PP
i80x86에서, 호스트 바이트 순서는 Least Significant Byte가 앞에 오고,
반면에 Internet에서 사용되고 있는 네트웍 바이트 순서는 Most Significant Byte가
앞에 온다.
.SH 호환
BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR gethostbyname "(3), " getservent (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 4월 30일 
