.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:28:17 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 23:49:37 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH BZERO 3  "1993년 4월 9일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
bzero \- 0 을 바이트 스트링에 쓴다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void bzero(void *" s ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBbzero()\fP 함수는 바이트 스트링 \fIs\fP의 처음 \fIn\fP 바이트를 0으로 설정한다.
.SH 반환값
\fBbzero()\fP 함수는 어떤 값도 반환하지 않는다.
.SH 호환
4.3BSD.  이 함수는 구식이 되었다.--새 프로그램에서는
.BR memset 을 
사용해라.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR memset "(3), " swab (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 5월 24일
