.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:25:52 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.TH CLOSEDIR 3  "1995년 6월 11일" "" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
closedir \- 디렉토리를 닫는다
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "int closedir(DIR *" dir );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBclosedir()\fP 함수는 \fIdir\fP과 연관된 디렉토리 스트림을 닫는다.
디렉토리 스트림 기술자 \fIdir\fP은 호출 이후에는 유효하지 않다.
.SH 반환값
\fBclosedir()\fP 함수는 성공시 0 또는 실패시 -1을 반환한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EBADF
무효한 디렉토리 스트림 기술자 \fIdir\fP
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR close "(2), " opendir "(3), " readdir "(3), " rewinddir (3),
.BR seekdir "(3), " telldir "(3), " scandir (3)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2001년 6월 28일
