.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:42:57 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Aug 14 1995 by Arnt Gulbrandsen <agulbra@troll.no>
.TH EXP 3  "1993년 6월 16일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
exp, log, log10, pow \- 지수, 로그 그리고 거듭 제곱 합수들
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double exp(double " x );
.sp
.BI "double log(double " x );
.sp
.BI "double log10(double " x );
.sp
.BI "double pow(double " x ", double " y );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBexp()\fP 함수는 e(베이스는 자연 로그) 의 \fIx\fP 제곱값을 반환한다.
.PP
\fBlog()\fP 함수는 \fIx\fP의 자연 로그를 반환한다.
.PP
\fBlog10()\fP 함수는 \fIx\fP의 베이스-10 로그(상용로그) 값을 반환한다.
.PP
\fBpow()\fP 함수는 \fIx\fP의 \fIy\fP 승 값을 반환한다.
.SH 에러
\fBlog()\fP 와 \fBlog10()\fP 함수는 다음 에러들을 반환할수 있다:
.TP
.B EDOM
인자 \fIx\fP가 음수이다.
.TP
.B ERANGE
인자 \fIx\fP가 0이다.  로그 0은 정의되어 있지 않다.
.PP
\fBpow()\fP 함수는 다음 에러들을 반환할수 있다:
.TP
.B EDOM
인자 \fIx\fP가 음수이고 \fIy\fP가 양수 값이 아니다.
이것은 복소수가 된다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH 관련 항목
.BR sqrt "(3), " cbrt (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 5월 24일
