.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ferror.3	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 14:24:40 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.TH FERROR 3  "1993년 11월 29일" "BSD MANPAGE" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
clearerr, feof, ferror, fileno \- 스트림 상태를 검사하고 리셋한다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "void clearerr( FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int feof( FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int ferror( FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int fileno( FILE *" stream );
.SH 설명
함수
.B clearerr
는 EOF를 지우고
.IR stream 을 
위한 에러 지시자는 스트림이 가리킨다.
.PP
함순
.B feof
는 
.IR stream 이
가리키는 스트림을 위한 EOF 지시자를 검사하고, 만일 설정되어 있다면 0이 아닌 값을 반환한다.
EOF 지시자는 
.BR clearerr 함수에
의해서만 지워질수 있다.
.PP
함수
.B ferror
는 
.IR stream 이
가리키는 스트림을 위한 에러 지시자를 검사하고, 만일 설정되어 있아면 0이 아닌 값을 반환한다.
에러 지시자는
.B clearerr
함수에 의해서만 리셋될수 있다.
.PP
함수
.B fileno
는 인자
.I stream
를 검사하고 해당 정수형 기술자를 반환한다.
.SH 에러
이들 함수는 실패해서는 안되며 외부 변수
.IR errno 
를 설정하지 않는다.
.SH 호환
함수
.BR clearerr ,
.BR feof ,
그리고
.BR ferror
는 X3.159-1989 (``ANSI C'') 호환이다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR open (2),
.BR stdio (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 4월 9일
