.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fread.3	6.6 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:37:33 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sun Feb 19 21:26:54 1995 by faith, return values
.\" Modified Thu Apr 20 20:43:53 1995 by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\" Modified Fri May 17 10:21:51 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\"
.TH FREAD 3  "1996년 5월 17일" "BSD MANPAGE" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
fread, fwrite \- 이진(바이너리) 스트림 입력/출력
.SH 사용법
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t fread( void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " nmemb ,
.BI "FILE *" stream );
.sp
.BI "size_t fwrite( const void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " nmemb ,
.BI "FILE *" stream );
.SH 설명
함수
.B fread
는 
.IR stream 이
가리키는 스트림에서 각
.I size
바이트 만큼 긴 데이터의 
.I nmemb
요소를 읽어, 
.IR ptr 이
가리키는 위치에 읽은 데이터들을 저장한다.
.PP
함수
.B fwrite
는 
.IR ptr 이
가리키는 위치에 있는 데이터들을 얻어서 각
.I size
바이트 만큼 긴 데이터의
.I nmemb
요소를 
.IR stream 이
가리키는 위치의 스트림에 쓴다.
.SH 반환값
.B fread
그리고
.B fwrite
는 성공적으로 읽고 쓴 항목(item)의 수를 반환한다.(즉, 문자들수가 아니다.)
만일 에러가 발생하거나 EOF에 도착한다면, 반환 값은 항목 수(또는 0)이다.
.PP
.B fread
는 EOF와 에러를 구분하지 않는다. 그리고 호출자는 무엇이 일어났는지를 결정
하기 위해
.BR feof (3)
와
.BR ferror (3)
를 사용해야 한다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR feof "(3), "ferror "(3), " read "(2), " write (2)
.SH 표준
함수
.B fread
와
.B fwrite
는 ANSI C3.159-1989 (``ANSI C'') 호환이다.
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 5월 1일 
