.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fseek.3	6.11 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:22:01 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.TH FSEEK 3  "29 November 1993" "BSD MANPAGE" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
fgetpos, fseek, fsetpos, ftell, rewind \- 스트림의 위치를 재배치 시킨다.
.SH 사용법
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fseek( FILE *" stream ", long " offset ", int " whence );
.br
.BI "long ftell( FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "void rewind( FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int fgetpos( FILE *" stream ", fpos_t *" pos );
.br
.BI "int fsetpos( FILE *" stream ", fpos_t *" pos );
.SH 설명
.B fseek
함수는 
.IR stream 이
가리키는 스트림을 위한 파일 위치 지정자를 설정한다.
바이트로 측정되는 새 위치는 
.IR whence 가
지정하는 위치에 
.I offset
를 더하여 얻어진다.
만일 
.I whence
를 
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
또는 
.BR SEEK_END 로 
설정한다면, 오프셋은 각각 파일의 시작, 현재 위치 지정자, 또는 EOF와 관계가 
된다. 
.B fseek
함수의 연속적인 호출은 스트림을 위한 EOF 지정자를 지우고 같은 스트림에서 
.BR ungetc (3)
함수의 효과를 원상태로 돌린다.
.PP
.B ftell
함수는 
.IR stream 이 
가리키는 스트림을 위해 파일 위치 지정자의 현재 값을 얻는다.
.PP
.B rewind
함수는 
.I stream
이 가리키는 스트림을 위한 파일 위치 지정자를 파일의 시작으로 설정한다.
다음은:
.PP
.RS
(void)fseek(stream, 0L, SEEK_SET)
.RE
.PP
스트림을 위한 에러 지정자도 지운다는 것을 제외하고 같다. (
.BR clearerr (3)).
.PP
.B fgetpos
와 
.B fsetpos
함수는 
.B ftell
과 
.B fseek
과 동일하게 선택할수 있는 인터페이스이며
(whence를 
.BR SEEK_SET 로
설정), 
.IR pos 가
가리키는 객체나 객체에서 파일 오프셋의 현재 값을 설정하고 저장한다. 
몇몇 비-UNIX 시스템에서 
.B fpos_t
객체는 복잡한 객체이며 이들 루틴들은 호환성을 위해 텍스트 스트림을 재배치시키는
유일한 방법이다.
.SH 반환값
.B rewind
함수는 어떤 값도 반환하지 않는다.
성공적인 완성시, 
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.B fsetpos
는 0을 반환하고 
.B ftell
은 현재 오프셋을 반환한다. 그렇지 않으면 \-1이 리턴되며 전역 변수 errno는
에러를 가리키도록 설정된다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EBADF
지정된 
.I stream
은 탐색가능한 스트림이 아니다.
.TP
.B EINVAL
argument to 
.B fseek
의 
.I whence
인자가 
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_END ,
또는 
.BR SEEK_CUR 
가 아니다.
.PP
함수 
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.BR fsetpos ,
그리고 
.B ftell
은 실패할수 있으며 이때 루틴
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR lseek (2),
그리고 
.BR malloc (3) 을 
위해 지정된 에러중 하나로 
.I errno
를 설정한다.
.SH 호환
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fsetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.BR ftell ,
그리고 
.BR rewind
함수는 ANSI X3.159-1989 (``ANSI C'')과 호환된다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR lseek (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 4월 30일 
