.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:30:29 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Feb 14 21:47:50 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH GETENV 3  "1993년 4월 3일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getenv \- 환경 변수를 가져온다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *getenv(const char *" name );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBgetenv()\fP 함수는 \fIname\fP이 가리키는 문자열과 일치하는 문자열을 찾기 위해 환경 변수 
리스트를 탐색한다.
문자열은 \fIname = value\fP의 형태이다.
.SH 반환값
\fBgetenv()\fP 함수는 환경변수에서 값에 대한 포인터를 반환하거나, 일치하는 것이 없다면
NULL을 반환한다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH 관련 항목
.BR putenv (3),
.BR setenv (3),
.BR unsetenv (3),
.BR environ (5)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 3월 12일
