.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:48:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH GETNETENT 3  "May 15, 1993" "BSD" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
getnetent, getnetbyname, getnetbyaddr, setnetent, endnetent \-
네트웍 엔트리를 가져온다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.B struct netent *getnetent(void);
.sp
.BI "struct netent *getnetbyname(const char *" name );
.sp
.BI "struct netent *getnetbyaddr(long " net ", int " type );
.sp
.BI "void setnetent(int " stayopen );
.sp
.B void endnetent(void);
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBgetnetent()\fP 함수는 파일 \fI/etc/networks\fP 에서 다음 라인을 읽고 
그 라인에서 뽑아낸 필드들을 포함하는 \fInetent\fP 구조체를 반환한다.
\fI/etc/networks\fP 파일은 필요하다면 열려진다.
.PP
\fBgetnetbyname()\fP 함수는 \fI/etc/networks\fP에서 네트웍 \fIname\fP과 
일치하는 라인에 해당하는 \fInetent\fP 구조체를 반환한다.
.PP
\fBgetnetbyaddr()\fP 함수는 타입 \fItype\fP의 네트웍 번호 \fInet\fP과 
일치하는 라인에 해당하는 \fInetent\fP 구조체를 반환한다.
.PP
\fBsetnetent()\fP 함수는 \fI/etc/networks\fP 파일을 열고 되 감는다.  
만일 \fIstayopen\fP 이 참(1)이라면, 파일은 \fBgetnetbyname()\fP 과  
\fBgetnetbyaddr()\fP 호출시 닫혀지지 않을 것이다.
.PP
\fBendservent()\fP 함수는 \fI/etc/networks\fP을 닫는다.
.PP
\fInetent\fP 구조체는 다음처럼 \fI<netdb.h>\fP에 정의되어 있다.:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 6
.ta 8n 16n 34n
struct netent {
	char	*n_name;		/* 공식적인 네트웍 이름 */
	char	**n_aliases;		/* 별칭 이름 */
	int	n_addrtype;		/* net 주소 타입 */
	unsigned long int n_net;	/* 네트웍 번호 */
}
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP
\fInetent\fP 구조체 멤버는:
.TP
.I n_name
네트웍의 공식적인 이름 
.TP
.I n_aliases
네트웍을 위해 선택할수 있는 널로 종료된 리스트 
.TP
.I n_addrtype
네트웍 번호의 타입; 항상 AF_INET.
.TP
.I n_net
호스트 바이트 순서로 된 네트웍 번호.
.SH 반환값
\fBgetnetent()\fP, \fBgetnetbyname()\fP 그리고 \fBgetnetbyaddr()\fP
함수는 \fInetent\fP 구조체를 반환하거나, 만일 에러가 발생하거나 파일의 끝에
도착한다면 NULL 포인터를 반환한다.
.SH 파일
/etc/networks           네트웍 데이터베이스 파일 
.SH 호환
BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR getprotoent "(3), " getservent "(3), " networks (5)
.br
RFC 1101
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 4월 30일 
