.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:23:25 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon May 27 21:37:47 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH GETPW 3 "1996년 5월 27일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getpw \- 패스워드 라인 엔트리를 다시 생성한다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <pwd.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.BI "int getpw(uid_t " uid ", char *" buf );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBgetpw()\fP 함수는 버퍼 \fIbuf\fP에 주어진 사용자 \fIuid\fP를 위한 
패스워드 라인 엔트리를 다시 생성한다.
반환된 버퍼는 다음과 같은 형식의 라인을 포함한다.
.sp
.RS
.B name:passwd:uid:gid:gecos:dir:shell
.RE
.PP
\fIpasswd\fP 구조체는 다음과 같이 \fI<pwd.h>\fP에 정의되어 있다:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct passwd {
        char    *pw_name;		/* 유저 이름 */
        char    *pw_passwd;		/* 유저 패스워드 */
        uid_t   pw_uid;			/* 유저 ID */
        gid_t   pw_gid;			/* 그룹 ID */
        char    *pw_gecos;      	/* 실제 이름 */
        char    *pw_dir;  		/* 홈 디렉토리 */
        char    *pw_shell;      	/* shell 프로그램 */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH 반환값
\fBgetpw()\fP 함수는 성공시 0을 반환하거나 에러라면 \-1 을 반환한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B ENOMEM
패스워드 구조체를 할당하기 위한 메모리가 충분하지 않다.
.SH 파일
.TP
.I /etc/passwd
패스워드 데이터베이스 파일 
.SH 호환
SYSVr2.
.SH 버그
.BR getpw ()
함수는 제공되는 버퍼 
.IR buf 
를 오버플로우 할지 모르기 때문에 위험하다.
이 함수는 
.BR getpwuid ()에
의해 구식이 되었다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR fgetpwent (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR setpwent (3),
.BR endpwent (3),
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR getpwuid (3),
.BR putpwent (3),
.BR passwd (5)
.Sh 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 4월 30일 
