.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:20:36 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon May 27 21:37:47 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.TH GETPWNAM 3  "1996년 5월 27일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getpwnam, getpwuid \- 패스워드 파일 엔트리를 가져온다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <pwd.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.BI "struct passwd *getpwnam(const char * " name );
.sp
.BI "struct passwd *getpwuid(uid_t " uid );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBgetpwnam()\fP 함수는 사용자 이름 \fIname\fP과 일치하는 엔트리를 위해 
\fI/etc/passwd\fP 에서 뽑아낸 라인 필드들을 포함하는 구조체에 대한 
포인터를 반환한다.
.PP
\fBgetpwuid()\fP 함수는 사용자 \fIuid\fP와 일치하는 엔트리를 위해 
\fI/etc/passwd\fP 에서 뽑아낸 라인 필드들을 포함하는 구조체에 대한 
포인터를 반환한다.
.PP
\fIpasswd\fP 구조체는 다음처럼 \fI<pwd.h>\fP에 정의되어 있다.:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct passwd {
        char    *pw_name;		/* 유저 이름 */
        char    *pw_passwd;		/* 유저 패스워드 */
        uid_t   pw_uid;			/* 유저 id */
        gid_t   pw_gid;			/* 그룹 id */
        char    *pw_gecos;      	/* 실제 이름 */
        char    *pw_dir;  		/* 홈 디렉토리 */
        char    *pw_shell;      	/* shell 프로그램 */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH 반환값
\fBgetpwnam()\fP 와 \fBgetpwuid()\fP 함수는 패스워드 구조체에 대한 
포인터를 반환하거나 일치하는 엔트리가 발견되지 않거나 에러가 발생한다면
NULL을 반환한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B ENOMEM
패스워드 구조체를 할당할 메모리가 충분하지 않다.
.SH 파일
.TP
.I /etc/passwd
패스워드 데이터 베이스 파일 
.fi
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR fgetpwent (3),
.BR getgrnam (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR setpwent (3),
.BR endpwent (3),
.BR getpw (3),
.BR putpwent (3),
.BR passwd (5)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 4월 30일 
