.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:19:11 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Wed Oct 18 20:23:54 1995 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Modified Mon Apr 22 01:50:54 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\"
.TH GETSERVENT 3  "1996년 4월 22일" "BSD" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
getservent, getservbyname, getservbyport, setservent, \
endservent - 서비스 엔트리를 가져온다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.B struct servent *getservent(void);
.sp
.BI "struct servent *getservbyname(const char *" name ", const char *" proto );
.sp
.BI "struct servent *getservbyport(int " port ", const char *" proto );
.sp
.BI "void setservent(int " stayopen );
.sp
.B void endservent(void);
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBgetservent()\fP 함수는 파일 \fI/etc/services\fP에서 다음 라인을 읽고 그 
라인에서 뽑아낸 필드들을 포함하는 구조체 \fIservent\fP를 반한한다.
\fI/etc/services\fP 파일은 필요하다면 열려진다.
.PP
\fBgetservbyname()\fP 함수는 \fI/etc/services\fP에서 프로토콜 \fIproto\fP을 
사용하며 서비스 \fIname\fP 과 일치하는 라인에 해당하는 \fIservent\fP 
구조체를 반환한다.
.PP
\fBgetservbyport()\fP 함수는 프로토콜 \fIproto\fP을 사용하며 네트웍 
바이트 순서로 주어진 포트 \fIport\fP과 일치하는 \fIservent\fP 구조체를 
반환한다.
.PP
\fBsetservent()\fP 함수는 \fI/etc/services\fP 파일을 열고 다시 원래대로 
돌려놓는다.
만일 \fIstayopen\fP 가 참(1)이라면, 파일은 \fBgetservbyname()\fP 과 
\fBgetservbyport()\fP 호출시 닫혀지지 않는다.
.PP
\fBendservent()\fP 함수는 \fI/etc/services\fP를 닫는다.
.PP
\fIservent\fP 구조체는 다음처럼 \fI<netdb.h>\fP에 정의되어 있다:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 6
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct servent {
	char	*s_name;		/* 공식적인 서비스 이름 */
	char	**s_aliases;		/* 별칭 리스트 */
	int	s_port;			/* 포트 번호 */
	char	*s_proto;		/* 사용하는 프로토콜 */
}
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP
\fIservent\fP 구조체의 멤버는:
.TP
.I s_name
서비스의 공식적인 이름.
.TP
.I s_aliases
서비스를 위해 선택할수 있는 널로 종료된 리스트 
.TP
.I s_port
네트웍 바이트 순서로 주어진 서비스의 포트 번호 
.TP
.I s_proto
이 서비스에서 사용하는 프로토콜 이름 
.SH 반환값
\fBgetservent()\fP, \fBgetservbyname()\fP 그리고 \fBgetservbyport()\fP
함수는 \fIservent\fP 구조체를 반환하거나, 만일 에러가 일어나거나 파일의 
끝에 도착한다면 NULL 포인터를 반환한다.
.SH 파일
.TP
.I /etc/services
서비스 데이터 파일 
.SH 호환
BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR getprotoent "(3), " getnetent "(3), " services (5)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 4월 30일 
