.\" Written by Michael Haardt, Fri Nov 25 14:51:42 MET 1994
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Added siglongjmp, Sun Mar  2 22:03:05 EST 1997, jrv@vanzandt.mv.com
.\" Modifications, Sun Feb 26 14:39:45 1995, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" "
.TH LONGJMP 3 "March 2, 1997" "" "Library functions"
.SH 이름
longjmp, siglongjmp \- 비-지역에서 스택 문맥(stack context)이 저장된곳으로 점프한다.
.SH 사용법
.ad l
.B #include <setjmp.h>
.sp
.nf
.BI "void longjmp(jmp_buf " env ", int " val );
.BI "void siglongjmp(sigjmp_buf " env ", int " val );
.fi
.ad b
.SH 설명
\fBlongjmp()\fP와 \fBsetjmp()\fP는 프로그램의 하위-레벨 루틴에서 만나는 에러와
인터럽트를 처리할때 유용한다.
\fBlongjmp()\fP는 \fIenv\fP 인자에 대응하는 곳에  \fBsetjmp()\fP의 마지막 호출시 
저장된 환경 변수를 복구한다.

\fBlongjmp()\fP가 끝난 후, 프로그램 실행은 \fBsetjmp()\fP에 상응하는 호출이 
\fIval\fP값으로 반환된 것처럼 계속한다.  \fBlongjmp()\fP는 반환되기 위해 0 으로 할수는
없다.
만일 longjmp가 두번째 인자에 0 을 가지고 호출되었다면, 대신에 1이 반환된다.
.P
\fBsiglongjmp()\fP는  \fIenv\fP 인자 타입을 제외하고는 \fBlongjmp()\fP와 
비슷한다. 
만일 \fBsigsetjmp()\fP가  0 이 아닌 \fIsavesigs\fP 플래그를 사용한  
\fIenv\fP를 설정하고 호출되었다면,  
\fBsiglongjmp()\fP는 봉쇄된 신호 집합들을 복구한다.
.SH 반환값
이 함수들은 결코 반환되지 않는다.
.SH 호환
POSIX
.SH 주의
POSIX는 \fBlongjmp\fP가 신호 문맥을 저장하는지에 대해 명확히 하지 않는다. 만일 여러분이 신호 마스크를 저장하고 복구하길 원한다면,  
\fBsiglongjmp\fP를 사용해라.
.P
\fBlongjmp()\fP와 \fBsiglongjmp()\fP는 프로그램을 이해하고 유지하는데 어렵게 만든다. 선택할수 있는 것이 있다면, 그것을 사용해야 한다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR setjmp "(3), " sigsetjmp (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 1월 10일
