.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:55:27 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH MEMCMP 3  "1993년 4월 10일" "" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH NAME
memcmp \- 메모리 영역 비교하기
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int memcmp(const void *" s1 ", const void *" s2 ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmemcmp()\fP 함수는 메모리 영역 \fIs1\fP과 \fIs2\fP의 처음 \fIn\fP 바이트를
비교한다. 이 함수는 \fIs1\fP이 \fIs2\fP보다 작거나 같거나 크다면,
각각 0보다 작은 정수, 0, 0보다 큰 정수를 반환한다.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
\fBmemcmp()\fP 함수는 \fIs1\fP의 처음 \fIn\fP 바이트가 \fIs2\fP의 처음 \fIn\fP
바이트보다 작거나 같거나 크다면, 각각 0보다 작은 정수, 0, 0보다 큰 정수를 반환한다.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bcmp "(3), " strcasecmp "(3), " strcmp "(3), " strcoll (3),
.BR strncmp "(3), " strncasecmp (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 20일
