.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:49:57 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:56:22 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH MEMCHR 3  "1993년 4월 12일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH NAME
memchr \- 문자를 위해 메모리를 스캔한다.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void *memchr(const void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmemchr()\fP 함수는 문자 \fIc\fP를 위해 \fIs\fP가 가리키는 메모리 영역의
처음 \fIn\fP 바이트를 스캔한다. \fIc\fP(unsigned character로 해석)와 일치하는 
첫 바이트에서 작동을 멈춘다.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
\fBmemchr()\fP 함수는 일치하는 바이트에 대한 포인터를 반환하거나, 만일 문자가 
주어진 메모리 영역에 있지 않다면 NULL을 반환한다.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR index "(3), " rindex "(3), " strchr "(3), " strpbrk (3),
.BR strrchr "(3), " strsep "(3), " strspn "(3), " strstr (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 20일
