.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:09 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH MEMCPY 3  "1993년 4월 10일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH NAME
memcpy \- 메모리 영역 복사하기
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void *memcpy(void *" dest ", const void *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmemcpy()\fP 함수는 메모리 영역 \fIsrc\fP에서
메모리 영역 \fIdest\fP로 \fIn\fP 바이트를 복사한다.
메모리 영역은 겹쳐지지 않는다.
만일 메모리 영역을 겹쳐 쓰길 원한다면 \fBmemmove\fP(3)를 사용해라.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
\fBmemcpy()\fP 함수는 포인터 \fIdest\fP를 반환한다.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bcopy "(3), " memccpy "(3), " memmove "(3), " strcpy "(3), " strncpy (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 20일
