.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:54:45 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH MEMFROB 3  "1993년 4월 12일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH NAME
memfrob \- 메모리 영역을 암호화 한다.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void *memfrob(void *" s ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmemfrob()\fP 함수는 메모리 영역 \fIs\fP의 처음 \fIn\fP를 
숫자 42로 각 문자를 exclusive-ORing하여 암호화 한다.
결과는 암호화된 영역에서 \fBmemfrob()\fP를 사용하여 원래대로 할수 있다.
.PP
이 함수는 XOR 상수를 고정시켰기 때문에 적당한 암호화 루틴이 아니며 문자들을
숨기는데만 알맞다는 점을 주의해라.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
\fBmemfrob()\fP 함수는 암호화된 영역에 대한 포인터를 반환한다.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
\fBmemfrob()\fP 함수는 Linux C 라이브러리와 GNU C 라이브러리에서 유일하다.
GNU C Library.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR strfry (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 20일
