.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:46:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.TH OPENDIR 3  "1995년 6월 11일" "" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
opendir \- 디렉토리를 연다
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "DIR *opendir(const char *" name );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBopendir()\fP 함수는 디렉토리 \fIname\fP에 해당하는 디렉토리 스트림을 열고,
그 디렉토리 스트림에 대한 포인터를 반환한다. 그 스트림은 디렉토리의 첫번째
항목을 가리킨다.
.SH 반환값
\fBopendir()\fP 함수는 디렉토리 스트림에 대한 포인터를 또는 에러가 발생하면
NULL을 반환한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EACCES
권한이 거부되다.
.TP
.B EMFILE
프로세스가 너무 많은 파일 기술자를 사용하고 있다.
.TP
.B ENFILE
현재 시스템에 너무 많은 파일이 열여있다.
.TP
.B ENOENT
디렉토리가 존재하지 않거나, \fIname\fP이 공백이다.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
수행을 하기 위한 메모리가 부족하다.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
\fIname\fP이 디렉토리가 아니다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR open "(2), " readdir "(3), " closedir "(3), " rewinddir (3),
.BR seekdir "(3), " telldir "(3), " scandir (3)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2001년 6월 28일
