.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:43:46 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH PUTPWENT 3  "1993년 5월 9일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
putpwent \- 패스워드 파일 엔트리를 쓴다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <pwd.h>
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.BI "int putpwent(const struct passwd *" p ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBputpwent()\fP 함수는 \fIstream\fP과 관련된 파일에 구조체 \fIp\fP 인 
패스워드 엔트리를 쓴다.
.PP
\fIpasswd\fP 구조체는 다음처럼 \fI<pwd.h>\fP에 정의되어 있다:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct passwd {
        char    *pw_name;		/* 유저 이름 */
        char    *pw_passwd;		/* 유저 패스워드 */
        uid_t   pw_uid;			/* 유저 id */
        gid_t   pw_gid;			/* 그룹 id */
        char    *pw_gecos;      	/* 실제 이름 */
        char    *pw_dir;  		/* 홈 디렉토리 */
        char    *pw_shell;      	/* shell 프로그램 */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH 반환값
\fBputpwent()\fP 함수는 성공시 0을 리턴하고, 에러가 발생하면 \-1을 반환한다.
occurs.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EINVAL
유효하지 않은 인자가 주어졌다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR fgetpwent "(3), " getpwent "(3), " setpwent (3),
.BR endpwent "(3), " getpwnam "(3), " getpwuid "(3), " getpw (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 4월 30일 
