.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:09:49 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 22 July 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" If a Debian maintainer sees this: the current Debian page
.\" shows an incorrect struct dirent.
.\"
.TH READDIR 3  "1996년 4월 22일" "" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
readdir \- 디렉토리를 읽다
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "struct dirent *readdir(DIR *" dir );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBreaddir()\fP 함수는 \fIdir\fP이 가리키는 디렉토리 기술자의 다음 디렉토리
항목을 나타내는 dirent 구조체를 반환한다. 파일 끝에 도달하거나 에러가 발생하면
NULL을 반환한다.
.PP
\fBreaddir()\fP에 의해 반환되는 데이터는 같은 디렉토리 스트림에 대한 다음의
\fBreaddir()\fP 호출에 의해 덮어 쓰여진다.
.PP
POSIX에 따르면,
.I dirent
구조체는 지정되지 않은 크기의
.I "char d_name[]"
필드를 포함한다. 최대 길이는 종료 NULL 문자를 제외하고 \fBNAME_MAX\fP이다.
다른 필드를 사용하는 것은 프로그램의 이식성을 떨어트릴 것이다.
.SH 반환값
\fBreaddir()\fP 함수는 dirent 구조체의 포인터를, 또는 에러가 발생하거나 파일
끝에 도달하면 NULL을 반환한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EBADF
무효한 디렉토리 스트림 기술자 \fIdir\fP
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR read "(2), " opendir "(3), " closedir "(3), " rewinddir (3),
.BR seekdir "(3), " telldir "(3), " scandir (3)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2001년 6월 28일
