.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:26:16 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Thu Apr 11 17:11:33 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl):
.\"     Corrected type of compar routines, as suggested by
.\"     Miguel Barreiro (enano@avalon.yaix.es).  Added example.
.\" In case a Debian maintainer sees this: the Debian version is wrong.
.\" Please do not `correct' the version here.
.\" Modified Sun Sep 24 20:15:46 2000 by aeb, following Petter Reinholdtsen.
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역: 임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org> 2001년 6월 28일
.\"
.TH SCANDIR 3  "1996년 4월 11일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
scandir, alphasort \- 디렉토리에서 해당 항목을 조사한다
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "int scandir(const char *" dir ", struct dirent ***" namelist ,
.RS
.BI "int (*" select ")(const struct dirent *),"
.BI "int (*" compar ")(const struct dirent **, const struct dirent **));
.RE
.sp
.BI "int alphasort(const struct dirent **" a ", const struct dirent **" b );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBscandir()\fP 함수는 각 디렉토리 항목에 대해 \fBselect()\fP를 호출하면서 \fIdir\fP 디렉토리를 조사한다. \fBselect()\fP에서 0이 아닌 값을 반환한 항목들은 \fBmalloc()\fP을 통해 할당된 문자열에 저장되고, 비교 함수 \fBcompar()\fP를 사용한
\fBqsort()\fP에 의해 정렬되고, \fBmalloc()\fP를 통해 할당된 \fInamelist\fP
배열에 모아진다.
\fBselect\fP가 NULL이면 모든 항목이 선택된다.
.PP
\fBalphasort()\fP 함수는 디렉토리 항목들을 알파벳 순서로 정렬하기 위해
\fBscandir()\fP 함수의 비교 함수로 사용될 수 있다. 그 함수의 인자는 비교할 두
개의 디렉토리 항목 \fIa\fP와 \fIb\fP이다.
.SH 반환값
\fBscandir()\fP 함수는 선택된 디렉토리 항목의 개수를 또는 에러가 발생하면 -1을
반환한다.
.PP
\fBalphasort()\fP 함수는 첫번째 인자가 두번째 인자보다 작거나, 같거나, 크거나에
따라 각각 0 보다 작거나, 같거나, 큰 정수를 반환한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B ENOMEM
수행을 하기 위한 메모리 부족하다.
.SH 호환
BSD 4.3
.SH 예제
.nf
/* 현재 디렉토리의 파일을 역순으로 출력한다 */
#include <dirent.h>
main(){
    struct dirent **namelist;
    int n;

    n = scandir(".", &namelist, 0, alphasort);
    if (n < 0)
        perror("scandir");
    else {
        while(n--) {
            printf("%s\en", namelist[n]->d_name);
            free(namelist[n]);
        }
        free(namelist);
    }
}
.fi
.SH 관련 항목
.BR opendir (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR closedir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR telldir (3),
.BR seekdir (3).
.SH 번역
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org> 2001년 6월 28일
.br
한글 Manpage 프로젝트 (http://man.kldp.org) 2005년 2월 14일
