.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:25:21 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH SEEKDIR 3  "1993년 3월 31일" "" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
seekdir \- 디렉토리 스트림에서 다음 readdir() 호출의 위치를 설정한다
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "void seekdir(DIR *" dir ", off_t " offset );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBseekdir()\fP 함수는 다음 \fBreaddir()\fP 호출이 시작할 디렉토리 스트림의
위치를 설정한다. \fBseekdir()\fP는 \fBtelldir()\fP에서 반환된 offset 값을
사용해야만 한다.
.SH 반환값
\fBseekdir\fP 함수는 어떤 값도 반환하지 않는다.
.SH 호환
BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR lseek (2),
.BR opendir (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR closedir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR telldir (3),
.BR scandir (3)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2001년 6월 28일
