.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:20:58 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Feb 14 21:47:50 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.TH SETENV 3  "1993년 4월 4일" "BSD" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
setenv \- 환경 변수를 바꾸거나 추가시킨다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int setenv(const char *" name ", const char *" value ", int " overwrite );
.sp
.BI "void unsetenv(const char *" name );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBsetenv()\fP 함수는 
만일 \fIname\fP이 이미 존재하지 않는다면, 값 \fIvalue\fP를 가지고 있는 환경 변수 
\fIname\fP을 추가시킨다. 만일 \fIname\fP가 환경 변수에 존재한다면, 
\fIoverwrite\fP가 0 이 아니라면 그 값은 \fIvalue\fP로 바뀐다.
만일 \fIoverwrite\fP가 0 이라면, \fIname\fP의 값은 바뀌지 않는다.
.PP

\fBunsetenv()\fP 함수는 환경 변수에서 변수 \fIname\fP 를 지운다.
.SH 반환값

\fBsetenv()\fP 함수는 성공시 0 을 반환하거나, 만일 환경 변수에 공간이 충분하지 않다면
\-1을 반환한다.
.SH 호환
BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR getenv (3),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR environ (5)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 3월 12일

