.\" Written by Michael Haardt, Fri Nov 25 14:51:42 MET 1994
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Added sigsetjmp, Sun Mar  2 22:03:05 EST 1997, jrv@vanzandt.mv.com
.\" Modifications, Sun Feb 26 14:39:45 1995, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" "
.\"
.\" Changelog of Korean version
.\" r1.3 2004-03-25 15:53:42 +17-15  윤현호
.\" r1.2 2004-03-11 12:53:58 +7-7    WkPark
.\" r1.1 2004-03-11 12:45:00         WkPark 	
.\"
.TH SETJMP 3 "1997년 3월 2일" "" "라이브러리 함수"
.SH 이름
setjmp, sigsetjmp \- 비지역 탈출(non-local goto)을 위해 스택 내용(stack context)을 저장한다.
.SH 사용법
.ad l
.B #include <setjmp.h>
.sp
.nf
.BI "int setjmp(jmp_buf " env );
.BI "int sigsetjmp(sigjmp_buf " env ", int " savesigs );
.fi
.ad b
.SH 설명
\fBsetjmp()\fP와 \fBlongjmp()\fP는 프로그램의 하위 레벨 루틴에서 만나는 오류와
인터럽트를 처리할 때 유용하다.
\fBsetjmp()\fP는 나중에 \fBlongjmp()\fP 함수가 사용할 수 있도록 하기 위해 \fIenv\fP에
스택 내용과 환경 변수를 저장한다.
\fBsetjmp()\fP를 호출한 함수가 반환되었다면, 스택 내용은 무효하게 된다.
.P
\fBsigsetjmp()\fP는 \fBsetjmp()\fP 함수와 비슷하다.
만일 \fIsavesigs\fP가 0 이 아니라면, 봉쇄된 신호 집합들은 \fIenv\fP에 저장되고
만일 \fBsiglongjmp()\fP가 \fIenv\fP과 함께 나중에 작동된다면 복구된다.
.SH 반환값
\fBsetjmp()\fP 와 \fBsigsetjmp()\fP 는 직접 반환된다면 0 이 반환된다.
그리고, 저장된 내용을 사용하는 \fBlongjmp()\fP에서 반환된다면 0 이 아닌 값으로 반환된다.
.SH 호환
POSIX, ISO 9899
.SH 주의
POSIX에서는 \fBsetjmp()\fP가 신호 내용을 저장하는지에 대해 명료하지 않다.
(SYSV에서는 저장하지 않는다. DBD4.3는 저장하며, 그렇지 않는 함수 \fB_setjmp()\fP가 있다.)
신호 마스크를 저장하고 싶다면, \fBsigsetjmp()\fP를 사용하라.
.P
\fBsetjmp()\fP와 \fBsigsetjmp()\fP는 프로그램을 이해하고 유지하는데 어렵게 만든다.
다른 방법이 가능하면 그것을 사용하라.
.SH "관련 항목"
.BR longjmp "(3), " siglongjmp (3)
.SH 번역
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net> 2001년 1월 10일
.br
한글 Manpage 프로젝트 (http://man.kldp.org) 2004년 3월 25일
