.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Mike Battersby
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by aeb, 960721
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역: 정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net> 2001년 5월 1일
.\"
.\" r1.2 2005-02-13 15:37:53 +8-11 윤현호
.\" r1.1 2004-08-06 21:29:39  61.97.137.68
.\"
.TH SIGSETOPS 3 "24 September 1994" "Linux 1.0" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
sigemptyset, sigfillset, sigaddset, sigdelset, sigismember \- POSIX
시그널 집합 조작
.SH 사용법
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp 2
.BI "int sigemptyset(sigset_t *" set );
.sp
.BI "int sigfillset(sigset_t *" set );
.sp
.BI "int sigaddset(sigset_t *" set ", int " signum );
.sp
.BI "int sigdelset(sigset_t *" set ", int " signum );
.sp
.BI "int sigismember(const sigset_t *" set ", int " signum );
.SH 설명
.BR sigsetops (3)
함수는 POSIX 시그널 집합들의 조작을 허용한다.
.PP
.B sigemptyset
은 빈 시그널 집합
.I set
을 만든다.
.PP
.B sigfillset
은 모든 신호가 들어있는 시그널 집합
.I set
을 만든다.
.PP
.B sigaddset
과
.B sigdelset
은 각각 시그널 집합
.IR set 에서
시그널
.I signum
를 추가하거나 지운다.
.PP
.B sigismember
는 시그널
.I signum
가 시그널 집합
.I set
의 일부인지를 검사한다.
.SH 반환값
.BR sigemptyset ", " sigfullset ", " sigaddset
,
.B sigdelset
는 모두 성공시 0을 리턴하고 에러시 -1을 리턴한다.
.PP
만일 시그널
.I signum
가 시그널 집합
.IR set 
의 일부라면
.B sigismember
는 1을 반환하고, 
.I signum
가 일부가 아니라면 0을 반환하고 에러라면 -1을 반환한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I sig
가 유효한 시그널이 아니다.
.SH 호환
POSIX
.SH 관련 항목
.BR sigaction "(2), " sigpending "(2), " sigprocmask "(2), "
.BR sigsuspend "(2)"
.SH 번역
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net> 2001년 5월 1일
.br
한글 Manpage 프로젝트 (http://man.kldp.org) 2005년 2월 13일
