.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:16:02 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH SLEEP 3  "April 7, 1993" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
sleep \- 일정한 초시간 만큼 정지한다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned int sleep(unsigned int " "seconds" ");"
.fi
.SH 설명
.BR sleep() 은 
현재 동작 중인 프로세스를 
.I seconds
초시간이 경과하거나 무시할 수 없는 시그널이 올 때까지 정지시킨다.
.SH 반환값
요구한 시간이 경과하면 0, 혹은 남은 시간의 수
.SH 호환
POSIX.1
.SH 버그
.BR sleep() 은 
.BR SIGALRM 을 
사용하여 구현되었을 것이다;
.BR alarm() 과
.BR sleep() 을 
섞어서 호출하는 것은 나쁜 생각이다.
.PP
시그널 핸들로부터
.BR longjmp() 를 
사용 하거나 정지 중에
.BR SIGALRM
핸들을 수정할 경우, 알 수 없는 결과가 발생할 수 있다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR signal "(2), " alarm (2)
.SH 역자
배성훈 <plodder@kldp.org>, 2000년 4월 20일
