.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:11:47 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH STRCAT 3  "1993년 4월 11일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
strcat, strncat \- 두 문자열을 연결시킨다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strcat(char *" dest ", const char *" src );
.sp
.BI "char *strncat(char *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBstrcat()\fP 함수는 \fIdest\fP의 마지막 `\\0' 문자를 겹쳐서 
\fIsrc\fP 문자열을 \fIdest\fP 문자열에 추가시킨다. 그리고
마지막에 `\\0' 문자를 추가시킨다.
문자열은 중첩되지 않으며 \fIdest\fP 문자열은 결과를 위해 충분한 
공간을 가지고 있어야 한다.
.PP
\fBstrncat()\fP 함수는 \fIsrc\fP의 처음 \fIn\fP문자들만 \fIdest\fP에
추가시키는것을 제외하고는 비슷하다.
.SH 반환값
\fBstrcat()\fP와 \fBstrncat()\fP 함수는 결과 스트링 \fIdest\fP에 대한
포인터를 반환한다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH 관련 항목
.BR bcopy "(3), " memccpy "(3), " memcpy "(3), " strcpy "(3), " strncpy (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 24일
