.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:12:45 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH STRCASECMP 3  "1993년 4월 11일" "" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
strcasecmp, strncasecmp \- 대 소문자를 구분하지 않고 두개의 문자열을 비교
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int strcasecmp(const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 );
.sp
.BI "int strncasecmp(const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBstrcasecmp()\fP 함수는 대 소문자를 구분하지 않고, 두 문자열 \fIs1\fP과 \fIs2\fP를 비교한다.
이 함수는 만일 \fIs1\fP가 \fIs2\fP보다 작거나 일치하거나 큰 경우에 각각 0 보다 작은 정수, 0, 0보다
큰 정수를 반환한다.
.PP
\fBstrncasecmp()\fP 함수는 \fIs1\fP의 문자들 중 처음 \fIn\fP만을 비교한다는 것을 제외하고 비슷하다.
.SH 반환값
\fBstrcasecmp()\fP와 \fBstrncasecmp()\fP 함수는 만일 \fIs1\fP(또는 처음 \fIn\fP 바이트)가 
\fIs2\fP보다 작거나 일치하거나 큰 경우에 각각 0 보다 작은 정수, 0, 0보다 큰 정수를 반환한다.
.SH 호환
BSD 4.4
.SH 관련 항목
.BR bcmp "(3), " memcmp "(3), " strcmp "(3), " strcoll "(3), " strncmp (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 4월 9일
