.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:06:49 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Aug 25 23:17:51 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Wed Dec 18 00:47:18 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH STRCPY 3  "1993년 4월 11일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH NAME
strcpy, strncpy \- 문자열 복사하기.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strcpy(char *" dest ", const char *" src );
.sp
.BI "char *strncpy(char *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBstrcpy()\fP 함수는 \fIsrc\fP(`\\0' 문자를 포함)가 가리키는 문자열을  
\fIdest\fP가 가리키는 배열에 복사한다.
문자열을 겹쳐지지 않으며 목적지 문자열 \fIdest\fP는 복사 받을 정도로 
충분히 커야 한다.

.PP
\fBstrncpy()\fP 함수는 \fIsrc\fP의 \fIn\fP바이트만을 복사한다는 것을
제외하고 비슷하다. 만일 \fIsrc\fP의 처음 \fIn\fP 바이트중 null이 없다면,
결과는 null-종료가 안될수 있다.
.PP
.I src
의 길이가 
.IR n 보다
작은 경우, 
.I dest
의 나머지는 null로 패드된다.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
\fBstrcpy()\fP와 \fBstrncpy()\fP 함수는 목적지 문자열 \fIdest\fP에 대한
포인터를 반환한다.
.SH BUGS
\fBstrcpy()\fP의 목적지 문자열이 충분히 크지 않다면(즉, 프로그래머가 
어리석거나 게으르다면, 복사하기 전에 크기를 검사하지 않을 것이다), 
어떠한 일이 발생할수 있다.
고정된 길이의 문자열 오버 플로우는 즐겨 쓰여지는 크래커 기술이다.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bcopy "(3), " memccpy "(3), " memcpy "(3), " memmove (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 20일
