.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:40:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH STRCOLL 3  "1993년 4월 12일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
strcoll \- 현재 로케일을 사용하여 두 문자열을 비교한다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int strcoll(const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBstrcoll()\fP 함수는 두 문자열 \fIs1\fP과 \fIs2\fP를 비교한다.
이 함수는 만일 \fIs1\fP이 \fIs2\fP보다 작거나 같거나 클때, 각각
0 보다 작은 정수나 0, 0 보다 큰 정수를 반환한다.
비교는 문자열에 기반하며 프로그램의 현재 로케일 카테고리 \fILC_COLLATE\fP
에 맞게 해석된다.
(\fBsetlocale\fP(3) 참조).
.SH 반환값
\fBstrcoll()\fP 함수는 두 문자열이 현재 로케일에 맞게 해석될때, 
만일 \fIs1\fP이 \fIs2\fP보다 작거나 같거나 클때, 각각 0 보다 작은 정수나 0, 
0 보다 큰 정수를 반환한다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH 주의
\fI"POSIX"\fP 나 \fI"C"\fP 로케일에서, \fBstrcoll()\fP는  
\fBstrcmp()\fP와 동일하다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR bcmp "(3), " memcmp "(3), " strcasecmp "(3), " strcmp (3),
.BR strxfrm "(3), " setlocale (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 24일
