.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:34 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH STRDUP 3  "1993년 4월 12일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
strdup \- 문자열 복사하기.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strdup(const char *" s );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBstrdup()\fP 함수는 문자열 \fIs\fP를 복사한 새로운 문자열에 대한 포인터를 
반환한다. 새로운 문자열에 대한 메모리는 \fBmalloc\fP(3)으로 할당되며 
\fBfree\fP(3)로 해제 된다.
.SH 반환값
\fBstrdup()\fP 함수는 복사된 문자열에 대한 포인터를 반환하며, 이용할수
있는 메모리가 충분하지 않으면 NULL을 반환한다.
.SH 에러
.TP
.B ENOMEM
복사할 문자열을 할당하기 위해 이용할수 있는 메모리가 충분하지 않다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR calloc "(3), " malloc "(3), " realloc "(3), " free (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 24일
