.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:05:30 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Feb 16 14:25:17 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 20:55:44 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH STRERROR 3  "1993년 4월 13일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
strerror \- 에러 코드를 설명하는 문자열을 반환한다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strerror(int " errnum );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBstrerror()\fP 함수는 인자 \fIerrnum\fP에 전달되는 에러 코드를
설명하는 문자열을 반환한다. 이 문자열은 \fBstrerror()\fP에 대한 
다음 호출때까지 사용될수 있다.
.SH 반환값
\fBstrerror()\fP 함수는 적당한 설명 문자열을 반환하거나 만일 알지
못하는 에러코드라면 unknown error 메세지를 반환한다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH 관련 항목
.BR errno "(3), " perror "(3), " strsignal (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 24일
