.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:57:50 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH STRSPN 3  "1993년 4월 12일" "" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
strspn, strcspn \- 문자열을 문자들의 집합에서 찾는다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t strspn(const char *" s ", const char *" accept );
.sp
.BI "size_t strcspn(const char *" s ", const char *" reject );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBstrspn()\fP 함수는 전체적으로 \fIaccept\fP에 있는 문자들로 이루어져 
있는 \fIs\fP의 초기 세그먼트의 길이를 계산한다.
.PP
\fBstrcspn()\fP 함수는 전체적으로 \fIreject\fP에 없는 문자들로 이루어져
있는 \fIs\fP의 초기 세그먼트의 길이를 계산한다.
.SH 반환값
\fBstrspn()\fP 함수는 \fIaccept\fP에서 문자들로만 이루어져 있는 \fIs\fP의
초기 세그먼트에 있는 문자들의 수를 반환한다.
.PP
\fBstrcspn()\fP 함수는 문자열 \fIreject\fP에는 없는 \fIs\fP의 초기 세그먼트에
있는 문자들의 수를 반환한다.
.SH 호환
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH 관련 항목
.BR index "(3), " memchr "(3), " rindex "(3), " strchr (3),
.BR strpbrk "(3), " strsep "(3), " strstr "(3), " strtok (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 24일
