.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:00:10 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon Jan 20 12:04:18 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.TH STRSEP 3  "1993년 4월 12일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
strsep \- 문자열에서 토큰을 뽑아낸다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strsep(char **" stringp ", const char *" delim );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBstrsep()\fP 함수는 문자열 \fIstringp\fP에서 \fIdelim\fP로 구분되는
다음 토큰을 반환한다. 토큰은 `\\0' 문자로 끝나며 \fIstringp\fP은 토큰을
지나가는 시점에서 갱신된다.
.SH 반환값
\fBstrsep()\fP 함수는 토큰에 대한 포인터를 반환하거나 만일 \fIdelim\fP가
\fIstringp\fP에서 발견되지 않는다면 NULL을 반환한다.
.SH 주의
\fBstrsep()\fP 함수는 \fBstrtok()\fP에 대한 대체 함수로 소개되었다. 
왜냐하면 나중에 빈 필드를 처리하지 못하기 때문이다.
(그러나, \fBstrtok()\fP 함수는 ANSI-C에서 확정되었고 훨씬 호환적이다.)
.SH 호환
BSD 4.4
.SH 관련 항목
.BR index "(3), " memchr "(3), " rindex "(3), " strchr (3),
.BR strpbrk "(3), " strspn "(3), " strstr "(3), " strtok (3)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 2월 24일
