.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:45:39 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2000-02-13 by Nicol&#65533;s Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역
.\" 정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net> 2001년 2월 25일
.\"
.\" r1.4 2005-02-11 15:14:55 +12-1 윤현호
.\" r1.3 2004-07-10 20:56:36 +7-7 xaos
.\" r1.2 2004-07-10 20:52:40 +7-12 xaos
.\" r1.1 2004-07-03 14:47:09  147.46.208.54
.\"
.TH TOUPPER 3  "1993년 4월 4일" "GNU" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
toupper, tolower \- 문자를 대문자나 소문자로 바꾼다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <ctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int toupper (int " "c" ");"
.nl
.BI "int tolower (int " "c" ");"
.fi
.SH 설명
.B toupper()
는 가능하다면 문자
.I c
를 대문자로 바꾼다.
.PP
.B tolower()
는 가능하다면 문자
.I c
를 소문자로 바꾼다.
.PP
.I c
가 unsigned char 값이 아니거나 EOF 라면, 함수의 행동은 알 수 없다.
.SH 반환값
변환이 가능할 때엔 바뀐 문자, 그리고 변환이 불가능할 때에는 원래의 문자
.I c
가 반환된다.
.SH 호환
ANSI C, BSD 4.3
.SH 버그
대문자와 소문자를 구성하는 세부 사항은 현재 로케일에 의존한다.
예를 들어, 기본
.B """C"""
로케일은 독일어 우물라우트를 알지 못한다. 그래서 우물라우트 문자들은 변환하지 못한다.
.PP
몇몇 비 영어권 로케일에는 대문자가 없는 소문자도 있다.; 독일어의 에스체트가 한 예이다.
.SH 관련 항목
.BR isalpha "(3), " setlocale "(3), " locale (7)
.SH 번역
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net> 2001년 2월 25일
.br
한글 Manpage 프로젝트 (http://man.kldp.org) 2005년 2월 11일
