.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:43:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH USLEEP 3  "1993년 6월 4일 " "" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
usleep \- 마이크로초 간격으로 실행을 일시중지한다.
.SH 사용법
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "void usleep(unsigned long " usec );
.fi
.SH 설명
\fBusleep()\fP함수는 \fIusec\fP 마이크로초동안 호출 프로세스의 실행을 일지 
중지한다.
중지는 시스템 활동이나 호출을 처리하는데 보내는 타임에 따라 약간 늘어날수 있다.
.SH 호환
BSD 4.3
.SH 관련 항목
.BR setitimer (2),
.BR getitimer "(2),
.BR sleep (3),
.BR alarm (2),
.BR select (2)
.SH 역자
정강훈 <skyeyes@soback.kornet.net>, 2001년 4월 30일
