.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)banner.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.TH BANNER 6 "June 6, 1993"
.UC
.SH NAME
banner \- 인쇄용으로 사용하기 위해 커다란 글씨를 출력한다.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/banner
[
.BI \-w n
]
문자열 ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Banner
명령은 주어진 문자열을 커다란 글씨로 변환해서 표준출력으로 보낸다.
이때 명령행에서 문자열을 지정하지 않으면, 
큰 글씨로 변환할 문자열을 표준입력으로 부터 입력받는다. 
.B \-w
옵션이 주어지면, 초기값이 132칸인것을 그 
.I n 
칸으로 바꾸어 출력한다.
.I n
값이 주어지지 않으면, 80칸으로 내정한다.
.PP
출력은 132칸 이상일 경우에는 인쇄하고자 하는 프린터가 132칸 이상의 
넓이를 지원하는 경우여야지 제대로 출력이 된다. 
.SH BUGS
다음 문자들은 아직 출력되지 않는다. <, >, [, ], \\, ^, _, {, }, |, ~ 문자들.
또한 쉘에서 특수하게 사용되는 ", ', & 문자들도 출력되지 않는다. 
.PP
.B \-w
옵션을 사용할 때, 정확하게 그 칸만큼 출력되는 것이 아니라,
주어진 값보다 약간 작게 구현된다. 
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Horton





