.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)renice.8	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\"
.Dd June 9, 1993
.Dt RENICE 8
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm renice
.Nd 실행 중인 프로세스의 우선권을 바꾼다.
.Sh 사용법
.Nm renice
.Ar 우선권
.Oo
.Op Fl p
.Ar pid ...
.Oc
.Oo
.Op Fl g
.Ar pgrp ...
.Oc
.Oo
.Op Fl u
.Ar user ...
.Oc
.Sh 설명
.Nm Renice
명령은 하나 또는 그 이상의 실행중인 프로세스의 진행 우선권을 
바꾼다.

각 옵션에서 사용되는 옵션의 인자는 프로세스 ID, 프로세스 그룹 ID, 
사용자 ID이다.
프로세스 그룹의 우선권 변환은 그 해당되는 그룹의 모든 프로세스에 
적용된다. 
사용자의 우선권 변환은 그 해당되는 사용자의 모든 프로세스에 적용된다.
초기값으로 우선권 변환에 영향을 받는 프로세스는 그 지정한 프로세스만이다.
.Pp
사용할 수 있는 옵션은 다음과 같다:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl g
그룹 ID 지정
.It Fl u
사용자 ID 지정
.It Fl p
프로세스 ID 지정(초기값)
.El
.Pp
예를 들어,
.Bd -literal -offset
renice +1 987 -u daemon root -p 32
.Ed
.Pp
이런 명령이 내려지면, 프로세스 ID가 987, 32인 것과, 
사용자가 daemon과 root인 모든 프로세스의 우선권을 바꾼다.
.Pp
이 명령을 사용하는 이가 root가 아니라면, 자신의 프로세스만을
바꿀 수 있다. 또한 ``nice 값''은 0에서 
.Dv PRIO_MAX
(20) 까지만 사용할 수 있다.
(This prevents overriding administrative fiats.)
root의 경우는 모든 프로세스의 우선권을 바꿀 수 있으며, 
사용할 수 있는 ``nice 값''은 
.Dv PRIO_MIN
(\-20)부터 
.Dv PRIO_MAX 
까지이다.
유용한 우선권은:
20 (the affected processes will run only when nothing else
in the system wants to),
0 (the ``base'' scheduling priority),
anything negative (to make things go very fast).
.Sh 관련 파일
.Bl -tag -width /etc/passwd -compact
.It Pa /etc/passwd
UID와 사용자 이름을 확인하기 위해
.El
.Sh 관련 항목
.Xr getpriority 2 ,
.Xr setpriority 2
.Sh 벌레
일반 사용자는 자신의 프로세스 우선권을 줄일 수는 없다. 
.Sh 발자취
.Nm
명령은
.Bx 4.0
시스템에서 처음 나타났다.
