.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)swapon.8	6.3 (Berkeley) 3/16/91
.\"
.\" Sun Dec 27 12:31:30 1992: Modified by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sat Mar  6 20:46:02 1993: Modified by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sat Oct  9 09:35:30 1993: Converted to man format by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sat Nov 27 20:22:42 1993: Updated authorship information, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Mon Sep 25 14:12:38 1995: Added -v and -p information
.\" Tue Apr 30 03:32:07 1996: Added some text from A. Koppenhoefer
.\"
.\" 번역자 이만용 <geoman@nownuri.nowcom.co.kr>
.TH SWAPON 8 "1995년 9월 25일" "리눅스 버전 1.x" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
swapon, swapoff \- 페이징, 스와핑용 장치/화일 사용 설정
.SH 개요
.B /sbin/swapon [\-h \-V]
.br
.B /sbin/swapon \-a [\-v]
.br
.BI "/sbin/swapon [\-v] [\-p " "우선권" "] " " 특수화일 " ...
.br
.B /sbin/swapoff [\-h \-V]
.br
.B /sbin/swapoff \-a
.br
.BI /sbin/swapoff " 특수화일 " ...
.SH 설명
.B Swapon
은 페이징(Paging)과 스와핑(Swapping)에 쓰이는 장치를 나타낼 때 사용된다.
.B swapon
은 보통 시스템의 다중 사용자 초기화 화일
.I /etc/rc
에서 모든 스왑 장치를 사용하려고 할 때 사용된다.

첫번째 형식에 대한 설명은 다음과 같다:
.TP
.B \-h
도움말 제공
.TP
.B \-V
버전 출력
.TP
.B \-a
.I /etc/fstab
에 ``sw'' 스왑 장치로 표기된 모든 장치를 스왑으로 설정한다.
.TP
.BI \-p " 우선권"
.BR swapon
에서 사용될 우선권을 설정한다.
이 옵션은
.B swapon
이 커널 1.3.2 와 그 이후 버전에서 컴파일된 경우에만 가능하다.
.I priority
은 0 ~ 32767 사이의 값이다.
스왑 우선권에 대한 자세한 내용은 
.BR swapon (2)
을 참고하라.
.BI pri= value
이라는 항목을 
.I /etc/fstab
의 옵션 필드에 써넣으면 
.BR "swapon -a"
할 때 이용된다.
.PP
.B Swapoff
는 지정한 장치나 화일 상에서 또는 
.B \-a
옵션을 사용할 때는
.I /etc/fstab
에 적힌 장치의 스와핑을 사용하지 않도록 한다.
.SH 참고
.BR swapon "(2), " swapoff "(2), " fstab "(5), " init "(8), " mkswap (8),
.BR rc "(8), " mount (8)
.SH 관련 화일
.I /dev/hd??
표준 페이징 장치((E)IDE)
.br
.I /dev/sd??
표준 페이징 장치(SCSI)
.br
.I /etc/fstab
아스키 형식의 화일 시스템 표기 테이블
.SH HISTORY
.B swapon
명령은 4.0BSD에서 생겼다.
.SH 저자
.BR mount (8)
맨페이지를 보면 완벽한 저자 목록을 알 수 있다. 주로 기여한 분들은 Doug
Quale, H.J. Lu, Rick Sladkey, 그리고 Stephen Tweedie 이다.
.SH 번역자
.br
이 만 용
.B <geoman@nownuri.nowcom.co.kr>
.br
.B "         <freeyong@soback.kornet.nm.kr>"

