.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Andries Brouwer
.\" This page is somewhat derived from a page that was
.\" (c) 1980, 1989, 1991 The Regents of the University of California
.\" and had been heavily modified by Rik Faith and myself.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 번역자 이만용 <geoman@nownuri.nowcom.co.kr>
.TH MOUNT 8 "1996년 7월 5일" "리눅스 버전 2.0" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
umount \- 화일 시스템을 언마운트
.SH 개요
.BI "umount [\-hV]"
.LP
.BI "umount -a [\-nv] [\-t " 화일시스템유형 ]
.br
.BI "umount [\-nv] " "장치 " | " 디렉토리 " [...]
.SH 설명
.B umount
명령은 화일 계층구조로부터 화일 시스템을 떼어낸다. 화일 시스템 지정방법은
마운트된 디렉토리를 명시하거나 또는 직접 장치명을 적어주는 방법 2 가지가
있다.

만약 사용 중(`busy') - 예를 들어 화일 시스템 상의 화일이 열려 있거나 어떤
프로세스가 작업 디렉토리로 사용중이거나 그 위에 있는 스왑 화일이 사용중-인
경우에는 언마운트시킬 수 없다는 것을 명심하라.
또는 
.B umount
명령 자체가 libc 를 열고 libc가 예를 들어 로케일(locale)화일을 여는 경우도
생각해볼 수 있다.

.B umount
명령에 대한 옵션은 다음과 같다:
.TP
.B \-V
버전을 출력하고 종료한다.
.TP
.B \-h
도움말 메세지를 출력하고 종료한다.
.TP
.B \-v
자세한 출력 모드.
.TP
.B \-n
.IR /etc/mtab
를 갱신하지 않고 언마운트한다.
.TP
.B \-a
.I /etc/mtab
화일에 명시한 모든 화일 시스템을 언마운트한다.
.TP
.BI \-t " 화일시스템유형"
특정 화일시스템유형에만 적용하도록 지정한다. 둘 이상의 유형에 대해서는
콤마(,)로 구분한다. 화일 시스템 목록에 대해서는 
.B no
를 접두사로 씀으로써 그것을 제외시킬 수도 있다.

.SH "루프 장치(THE LOOP DEVICE)"
.B umount
명령은 만약 사용 중인 루프 장치가 있다면 그것을 해제한다.
.IR /etc/mtab
에 `loop=...'이라는 옵션을 찾을 때 그렇게 한다.
자동으로 해제되지 않은 장치에 대해서는 `losetup -d'를 사용한다.
.BR losetup (8)
를 읽어보기 바란다.


.SH "관련 화일"
.I /etc/mtab
마운트된 화일 시스템에 대한 테이블

.SH "참고"
.BR umount (2),
.BR mount (8),
.BR losetup (8).

.SH HISTORY
.B umount
명령은 AT&T UNIX 버전 6 에서 생겼다.

.SH 번역자
.br
이 만 용
.B <geoman@nownuri.nowcom.co.kr>
.br
.B "         <freeyong@soback.kornet.nm.kr>"

