.\" -*- nroff -*- 
.\"
.\" This man-page is Copyright (C) 1997 John S. Kallal 
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" correction, aeb, 970825
.TH FULL 4 "1997년 8월 2일" "리눅스" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
full \- 항상 가득찬 장치
.SH 설명   
\fB/dev/full\fP 파일은 주번호 1과 부번호 7을 갖는다.
.LP 
\fB/dev/full\fP 장치에 쓰면 ENOSPC 에러로 실패할 것이다.

\fB/dev/full\fP 장치에서 읽으면 \\0 문자를 리턴할 것이다.

\fB/dev/full\fP에 대한 탐색(seek)은 항상 성공할 것이다.
.SH 설정
시스템에 \fB/dev/full\fP가 만들어져 있지 않다면, 다음과 같은 명령으로
만들 수 있다.
.nf

        mknod -m 666 /dev/full c 1 7
        chown root:root /dev/full

.fi
.SH 파일
/dev/full
.SH 관련 항목
.BR mknod (1),
.BR null (4),
.BR zero (4)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2000년 4월 21일
