.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:56:20 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 21:38:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" (and some more by aeb)
.\"
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH HD 4 "17 December 1992" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
hd \- MFM/IDE 하드 디스크 장치
.SH 설명
\fBHd*\fP는 포멧되지 않은 MFM/IDE하드에 억세스하기 위한 블록 장치이다.
프라이머리 IDE 콘트롤러에 있는 마스터 드라이브는(주 장치 번호 3번)
\fBhda\fR이다;슬레이브는 \fBhdb\fR이다. 세컨드 콘트롤러에 있는 
마스터 드라이브는(주 장치 번호 22번)\fBhdc\fR이다. 
그리고 슬레이브는 \fBhdd\fR이다.
.LP
일반적인 IDE 블록 장치이름은 아래와 같은 형태를 가진다.
.BI hd X\c
, 혹은
.BI hd XP\c, 이 경우
.I X
는 물리적인 드라이브를 표시하고,
.I P
는 물리적인 드라이브상의 파티션을 표시하는 번호이다.
첫번째 형태인,
.BI hd X,
는 전체 드라이브를 표시하는데 쓰인다.
파티션 번호는 파티션이 발견된 순서에 따라 할당되고, 
비어이 있지않고, 확장 파티션이 아니어야 번호를 받을 수 있다.
하지만 그것이 쓰이지 않거나 확장된 것임에 상관없이 
1-4까지의 파티션 번호는 MBR(프라이머리 파티션)상의 
4개의 파티션에게 할당된다, 그래서 첫번째 논리적 파티션은
.BI hd X 5\c
이 된다.
\&.
DOS 타입의 파티션과, BSD-disklabel 파티션이 모두 지원된다
거의 63개의 파티션을 만들 수 있다..
.LP
예를들어,
.B /dev/hda
는 시스템상의 첫번째 IDE 드라이브 전체를 나타낸다; 그리고
.B /dev/hdb3
는 세컨드 드라이브의 세번째 도스 프라이머리 파티션을 뜻한다.
.LP
대체로 아래와 같이 만들어진다:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 660 /dev/hda b 3 0
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hda1 b 3 1
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hda2 b 3 2
.br
\&...
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hda8 b 3 8
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hdb b 3 64
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hdb1 b 3 65
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hdb2 b 3 66
.br
\&...
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/hdb8 b 3 72
.br
chown root:disk /dev/hd*
.RE
.SH 파일
/dev/hd*
.SH 관련 항목
.BR mknod "(1), " chown "(1), " mount "(8), " sd "(4)"
