.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:59:10 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH MEM 4 "1992년 11월 21일" "리눅스" "리눅스 프로그래머 메뉴얼"
.SH 이름
mem, kmem, port \- 시스템메모리, 커널메모리와 시스템포트.
.SH 설명
\fBMem\fP은 컴퓨터 메인메모리의 이미지인 문자장치 파일이며,
시스템검사에 쓰인다.
.LP
mem의 바이트주소는 물리적인 메모리주소로 해석된다.
.LP
검사와 패칭은 read-only나 write-only비트가 주어졌을때, 예기치
못한 결과를 낳을 수 있다.
.LP
\fBMem\fP은 다음에 의해 생성된다:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 660 /dev/mem c 1 1
.br
chown root:mem /dev/mem
.sp
.RE
.LP
kmem파일은 물리적 메모리보다는 커널 가상메모리가 액세스되는 것을
제외하고는 mem파일과 같다.
.LP
kmem은 다음에 의해 생성된다:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 640 /dev/kmem c 1 2
.br
chown root:mem /dev/kmem
.sp
.RE
.LP
\fBPort\fP는 IO포트가 액세스되는 걸 제외하고는
mem과 같다.
.LP
\fBPort\fP은 다음에 의해 생성된다:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 660 /dev/port c 1 4
.br
chown root:mem /dev/port
.sp
.RE
.SH 파일
/dev/mem
.br
/dev/kmem
.br
/dev/port
.SH 관련 항목
.BR mknod "(1), " chown "(1), " ioperm (2)
