.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:00:12 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH NULL 4 "1992년 11월 21일" "리눅스" "리눅스 프로그래머 매뉴얼"
.SH 이름
null, zero \- 데이터 소멸점(sink)
.SH 설명
\fBnull\fP나 \fBzero\fP 특수 파일에 쓴 데이터는 버려진다.
.PP
\fBnull\fP 특수 파일에서 읽으면 항상 EOF를 리턴하는 반면, \fBzero\fP에서
읽으면 항상 \e0 문자를 리턴한다.
.LP
\fBnull\fP와 \fBzero\fP는 다음과 같이 만들어진다:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 666 /dev/null c 1 3
.br
mknod -m 666 /dev/zero c 1 5
.br
chown root:mem /dev/null /dev/zero
.sp
.RE
.SH 주의
이 장치가 모든 사용자에게 쓰기와 읽기 가능하지 않으면, 많은 프로그램이
이상한 동작을 할 것이다.
.SH 파일
/dev/null
.br
/dev/zero
.SH 관련 항목
.BR mknod "(1), " chown (1)
.SH 역자
임종균 <hermes44@secsm.org>, 2000년 4월 21일
