.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:02:24 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" 한국어 번역 : ASPLINUX<man@asp-linux.co.kr>    2000년 7월 29일
.\"
.TH TTY 4 "January 21, 1992" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
tty \- 제어 터미널
.SH 설명
파일 \fB/dev/tty\fP는 문자 파일로서 메이저 넘버 5와 마이너 넘버 0을 지니며, 보통 모드 0666와 
owner.group root.tty를 지닌다. 이 파일은 프로세스의 제어 터미널과 유사하다. 

.LP
\fBtty\fP가 참조하는 디바이스에 의해 지원된 \fBioctl()\fP 요청외에도, 
다음의 \fBioctl()\fP 요청 역시 지원된다. 

.IP \fBTIOCNOTTY\fP
제어 터미널에서 현재 프로세스를 떼어내고, 이를 새로운 프로세스 그룹에 
부착할 필요 없이, 현재 프로세스 그룹에서 삭제한다. (그룹 ID를 0으로 설정한다.)
\fBioctl()\fP 호출은 \fB/dev/tty\fP에 연결된 파일 기술자에서만 동작한다. 이는
터미널에서 사용자에 의해 데몬 프로세스들이 시작되었을 때, 데몬 프로세스에 의해 사용된다. 
프로세스는 \fB/dev/tty\fP를 열고자 한다. 만일 여는 것이 성공적이라면, \fBTIOCNOTTY\fP를 
사용함으로서 터미널에서 자신을 제거시킨다. 반면에 여는 것이 실패하면, 터미널에서 첨부될
필요가 없으므로 자신을 제거할 필요가 없다. 

.SH 파일
/dev/tty
.SH 관련 항목
.BR mknod "(1), " chown "(1), " getty "(1), " termios "(2), "
.BR console "(4), " ttys (4)
