.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Kim Letkeman.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)cal.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt CAL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cal
.Nd 달력 출력
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm cal
.Op Fl jy
.Op Ar month Op Ar year
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Cal
명령은 간단한 달력을 보여준다.
아무런 명령행 인자가 없으면, 시스템의 현재 달을 보여준다.
사용할 수 있는 옵션은 다음과 같다:
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl j
율리우스력(구태양력)으로 출력.
.It Fl y
현재 년도 모든 달을 모두 보여준다.
.El
.Pp
사용할 수 있는 연도는 1-9999 이며, 
년도를 지정할 경우에는 세기가 생략되어서는 안된다. 
.Dq Li cal 89
명령이면 1989년 달력을 보여주지 않고 89년 달력을 보여준다.
연도 다음에 오는 숫자는 달로 인식한다. 그렇기 때문에, 
1-12까지만의 숫자만 사용할 수 있다. 
이런 명령행 인자가 아무것도 없으면, 현재 달의 달력만 보여준다.
.Pp
즉, 명령행 인자로 사용할 수 있는 가장 작은 값은 1 1 (서기 1년 1월)이다.
.Pp
그레고리오력(지금의 태양력)은 1752년에 9월에 세번째 개정된 것을 
사용한다. 
이번 버전에서는 1900년 이전의 년도들에 대해서 제대로 인식한다.
재 개정되면서 1900년 이전 년도들의 날짜 수가 10일 삭제되었다.
그래서, 1900년 이전의 달력들을 볼 때 조금 이상하게 생각할 수도 있다.
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
명령은 Version 6 AT&T UNIX에서 처음 나타났다.
