.\" chkdupexe.1 -- 
.\" Created: Sat Mar 11 18:19:44 1995 by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Revised: Sat Mar 11 19:07:05 1995 by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Revised: Wed Jul  5 01:56:26 1995 by shields@tembel.org
.\" Copyright 1995 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" 
.TH CHKDUPEXE 1 "11 Mar 1995" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
chkdupexe \- 똑같은 실행 파일 찾기
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chkdupexe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chkdupexe
명령은 환경 변수 $PATH에 지정되어 있는 경로를 검색해서, 
같은 이름을 가진 실행파일이 두개 이상 있으면 그 정보를 보여준다.
물론 이때 심블릭된 것도 같은 파일로 인식한다.
.SH AUTHOR
Nicolai Langfeldt, Michael Shields.
