.\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Michael Rendell.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)col.1	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/17/91
.\"
.Dd June 17, 1991
.Dt COL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm col
.Nd 입력으로부터 줄 바꿈문자(line feed)를 바꾸는 필터
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm col
.Op Fl bfx
.Op Fl l Ar num
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Col
필터는 "\\n\\r" 문자를 "\\n" 문자로 바꾸어 주는 필터이다. 
또한 공백문자를 탭문자로 바꾸고, 백스페이스 문자를 없애는 기능을 
한다. 이 필터는 
.Xr nroff 1
와
.Xr tbl  1
출력물의 처리에 아주 유용하게 쓰인다. 
(이 두 풀그림에 의해서 만들어지는 대표적인 출력이 man의 cat 파일이다.
즉, cat 파일을 단순 텍스트 파일로 바꾸는데 아주 유용하게 쓰인다.)
.Pp
.Nm Col
필터는 표준 입력으로 받아서 표준 출력으로 보낸다. (즉, 파일로 저장하려면,
파이프와 방향전환이 필요하다.)
.Pp
여기서 사용되는 옵션은 다음과 같다:
.Bl -tag -width "-lnum"
.It Fl b
어떠한 백스페이스 문자도 출력하지 않는다.
이것은 팩스페이스 문자와 연결되는 마지막 문자만 출력한다. 
.It Fl f
밑줄 속성을 가진 문자열을(Forward half line feed) 변환하지 
않는다. 일반적으로 밑줄 속성을 가진 문자열들은 다음줄에서 
밑줄(\-)이 나타난다.(그런데, 실질적으로 \fBcolcrt(1)\fR 필터를 
사용하지 않고는 제대로 이 기능이 나타나지 않더군요. \- 옮긴이 말)
.It Fl h
여러 공백문자를 탭문자로 바꾼다.
.It Fl x
여러 공백문자들을 그대로 둔다.
.It Fl l Ns Ar num
메모리에 한번에 둘수 있는 최대 줄수를 
.Ar num
줄로 한다.
초기값은 128줄이다.
.El
.Pp
다음은 
.Nm col
명령에서 변환대상이 되는 각종 문자들이다:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "carriage return" -compact
.It ESC\-7
reverse line feed (escape then 7)
.It ESC\-8
half reverse line feed (escape then 8)
.It ESC\-9
half forward line feed (escape then 9)
.It backspace
moves back one column (8); ignored in the first column
.It carriage return
(13)
.It newline
forward line feed (10); also does carriage return
.It shift in
shift to normal character set (15)
.It shift out
shift to alternate character set (14)
.It space
moves forward one column (32)
.It tab
moves forward to next tab stop (9)
.It vertical tab
reverse line feed (11)
.El
.Pp
윗 문자들과 영문, 숫자, 글쇠판에 있는 각종 기호를 제외한 
나머지 문자들은 모두 무시되어버린다.
(즉 한글은 완전 무시되어버린다. - 옮긴이 말)
.Sh 관련 항목
.Xr expand 1 ,
.Xr nroff 1 ,
.Xr tbl 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm col
명령은 Version 6 AT&T UNIX에서 처음 사용되었다.
