.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)colcrt.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/30/93
.\"
.Dd June 30, 1993
.Dt COLCRT 1
.Os BSD 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm colcrt
.Nd 밑줄 속성을 가진 문자 변환 필터
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm colcrt
.Op Fl
.Op Fl \&2
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Colcrt
필터는 밑줄 속성을 가진 문자를 
볼 수 없는 터미날이나, 인쇄할 수 없는 프린터를 위해,
일반 텍스트 문서에서 그 문자 밑에 밑줄문자(\-)를 
넣어주는 필터이다. 
.Pp
사용할 수 있는 옵션은 다음과 같다:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl
밑줄 속성이 있는 문자열 아랫줄은 모두 밑줄로 표시한다.
이 옵션은 특별하게 
.Xr tbl 1 
명령에 의해서 만들어지는 표상자를 미리 보는데 유용하게 사용된다.
.It Fl 2
이 옵션을 사용하지 않으면, 밑줄 속성이 있는 문자열이 있는 
다음줄에만 밀줄문자(\-)를 추가하기 위해 줄이 첨가된다. 
이것을 인쇄할 경우에 줄 간격이 이상하게 되어 읽기가 불편하다. 
이런 것을 대비해서 이 옵션을 사용하면, 밑줄 속성이 없는 문자열에서도 
무조건 다음줄은 공백으로 한줄 띄우게 된다. 
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Nm colcrt
필터는 전형적으로 다음과 같이 사용된다.
.Bd -literal
tbl exum2.n \&| nroff \-ms \&| colcrt \- \&| more
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nroff 1 ,
.Xr troff 1 ,
.Xr col 1 ,
.Xr more 1 ,
.Xr ul 1
.Sh BUGS
.Ql Fl
옵션을 사용했음에도 불구하고 밑줄 문자가 만들어지지 않을 경우도 있다.
.Pp
102줄 이상 되는 문서에서는 백업이 불가능하다.
.Pp
가운데줄 속성(흔히 취소선이라고함,overstriking)을 가진 문자들에 
대해서는 변환이 불가능하다. 
.Ql \&|
기능을 이용할 경우에는 
.Ql \-
문자나,
.Ql \&+ .
문자로 보여질 수도 있다.
.Pp
한글이 있는 문자열은 변환 불가능(팻치가 시급함)
.Pp
이미 두 공백문자가 있는 문서 안의 슈퍼스크립트나 하위스크립트 처리를 
위해서 약간의 준비과정이 필요하다.(?)
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
명령은 
.Bx 3.0 
에서 처음 사용되었다.













