.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)colrm.1	6.6 (Berkeley) 3/14/91
.\"
.Dd March 14, 1991
.Dt COLRM 1
.Os BSD 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm colrm
.Nd 파일에서 칸(colrum)을 지운다.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm colrm
.Op Ar startcol Op Ar endcol
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Colrm
필터는 파일에서 선택된 colum을 지운다. 
표준 입력, 표준 출력을 사용한다.
.Pp
명령행 인자로 하나만 사용되고, 그것이 숫자이면, 
그 지정한 숫자가 시작 colum이 되어 시작 colum에서부터 
그줄 끝까지 지운다. 
명령행 인자로 두개가 사용되면, 첫째 것은 시작 colum, 
둘째 것은 끝 colum이 되어 그 범위안에 있는 내용을 지운다.
.Pp
시작 colum으로 지정될 수 있는 가장 작은 값은 1이다.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr awk 1 ,
.Xr column 1 ,
.Xr expand 1 ,
.Xr paste 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
명령은 
.Bx 3.0
에서 처음 사용되었다.







