.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)column.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Os
.Dt COLUMN 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm column
.Nd 목록을 가로 정열
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm column
.Op Fl tx
.Op Fl c Ar columns
.Op Fl s Ar sep
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm column
명령은 입력된 것을 일정 칸으로 나누어 나열한다. 
흡사 \fBls(1)\fR 명령을 아무 옵션 없이 실행시켰을 때와 같은 
기능을 한다. 먼저 세로로 나열하고 그 다음 가로로 나열한다.
.Ar file
인자로 입력을 받거나, 일반적으로 표준 입력에서 입력을 받는다.
입력되는 것 중에 빈줄은 무시된다.
.Pp
사용할 수 있는 옵션은 다음과 같다:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
전체 가로 폭을
.Ar columns
값으로 해서 정열한다.
.It Fl s
.Fl t
옵션을 위해 가로칸 조사에 사용될 문자를 지정한다.
.It Fl t
입력되는 내용의 가로칸 갯수를 조사하고, 그것을 바탕으로 
출력 양식을 정한다. 
입력되는 내용의 가로칸 갯수는 공백문자로 구분한다. (초기값)
이 구분 문자는 
.Fl s
옵션에서 따로 지정할 수도 있다.
예쁜 출력물을 얻는데, 유용하게 쓰인다.
(아래 예제 참조)
.It Fl x
가로로 먼저 나열하고, 다음 세로로 나열한다.
.El
.Pp
.Nm Column
명령은 오류 없이 끝나면 0, 오류가 발생하면, 0보다 큰 값을 리턴한다.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width COLUMNS
.It Ev COLUMNS
이 환경 변수는 가로칸의 기본 넓이를 지정하는데 사용된다. 
(기본적으로 콘솔에서는 특별히 지정하지 않는 한은 80이 되겠지요?)
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
(printf \&"PERM LINKS OWNER GROUP SIZE MONTH DAY HH:MM/YEAR NAME\en\&"\ \&;\ \&\e
.br
ls -l \&| sed 1d) \&| column -t
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr colrm 1 ,
.Xr ls 1 ,
.Xr paste 1 ,
.Xr sort 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
명령은 
.Bx 4.3 Reno 
에서 처음 나타났다.









