.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)logger.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt LOGGER 1
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh NAME
.Nm logger
.Nd system log 기록
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm logger
.Op Fl is
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl p Ar pri
.Op Fl t Ar tag
.Op Ar message ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Logger
명령은 
시스템 기록 모듈인 
.Xr syslog  3
함수를 쉘 명령으로 구현한 것이다.
.Pp
Options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "message"
.It Fl i
매 줄마다 \fBlogger\fR의 프로세스 ID를 기록한다.
.It Fl s
system log와 같이 메시지를 표준 오류 장치에 기록한다.
.It Fl f Ar file 
기록 파일 지정
.It Fl p Ar pri 
우선권이 있는 메시지를 지정한다.
\fIpri\fR에는 숫자형식으로 오거나,
``facility.level'' 식으로도 올 수 있다.
예를 들어, ``\-p local3.info'' 옵션은 
.Ar local3
focility에서 
.Ar info Ns rmational
수준으로 메시지가 기록된다.
초기값은 ``user.notice.''
.It Fl t Ar tag 
.Ar tag
를 매 줄마다 기록
.It Ar message
\fImessage\fR를 기록한다. 만약 이것이 지정되지 않고, 
.Fl f
옵션을 사용하지 않으면, 표준 입력에서 기록할 내용을 입력받는다.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm logger
풀그림은 오류 없이 끝나면 0, 오류가 있으면, 0보다 큰 수를 리턴한다.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
logger System rebooted

logger \-p local0.notice \-t HOSTIDM \-f /dev/idmc
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr syslog 3 ,
.Xr syslogd 8
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm logger
명령은 
.St -p1003.2
시스템과 호환되고자 한다.





