.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)look.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/14/93
.\"
.Dd June 14, 1993
.Dt LOOK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm look
.Nd 주어진 문자열로 시작하는 줄을 보여준다.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm look
.Op Fl dfa
.Op Fl t Ar termchar
.Ar string
.Op Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm look
명령은 
.Ar file
에서 
.Ar string
으로 시작하는 줄을 찾아 보여준다.
이진파일 검색일 경우에는,
.Ar file
안의 각 줄이 먼저 정열되어야한다.
.Pp
.Ar file
이 지정되지 않으면, 
.Pa /usr/dict/words
파일을 사용한다. 
이 파일은 단지 알파벳 단어만 있으며, 대소문자는 무시된다.
(이것은 영문 맞춤법 검사에 유용하게 쓰인다.)
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
영문자만을 검색한다.
.It Fl f
대소문자를 구분하지 않는다.
.It Fl a
대체 사전인 
.Pa /usr/dict/web2
파일을 사용한다.
.It Fl t
Specify a string termination character, i.e. only the characters
in
.Ar string
up to and including the first occurrence of
.Ar termchar
are compared.
.El
.Pp
.Nm look
명령은 오류 없이 끝나면 0, 오류가 있으면 1보다 큰 수를 리턴하고 마친다.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /usr/dict/words -compact
.It Pa /usr/dict/words
사전
.It Pa /usr/dict/web2
대체 사전
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr grep 1 ,
.Xr sort 1
.Sh COMPATIBILITY
원래의 매뉴얼 페이지에는 
.Fl d
옵션이 지정되었을 때, 탭문자나 공백문자도 검색 대상이 된다고 쓰여져있다.
이 부분은 틀린 부분이었기에, 여기서 언급한다.
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm Look
명령은 Version 7 AT&T Unix에서 나타났다.
