.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mesg.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" Fri Mar 10 20:31:02 1995, modified for standard man macros,
.\" faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.\"
.\" Korean manpage ChangeLog
.\" original manpage from util-linux-2.11z package
.\"
.\" r1.6 2004-03-29 00:12:12 +11-10     윤현호
.\" r1.5 2004-03-13 11:59:49 +5-7       WkPark
.\" r1.4 2004-03-12 21:32:41 +5-6       WkPark
.\" r1.3 2004-03-12 21:29:24 +0-62      WkPark
.\" r1.2 2004-03-12 21:28:37 +135-14    WkPark
.\" r1.1 2004-03-12 21:06:17            WkPark
.\"
.TH MESG 1 "1995년 3월 10일" "Linux 1.2" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH 이름
mesg \- 다른 사람이 보내는 메시지를 통제한다.
.SH 사용법
.B mesg [ n ] [ y ]
.SH 설명
.B mesg
명령은 다른 사람이 자신의 터미날로 접근하기 위해 필요한 쓰기 권한을 제어할 때 쓰인다.
쓰기 권한이 허용될 경우
.BR talk (1)
와
.BR write (1)
같은 명령을 통해서 보내진 메시지가 터미널에 표시된다.
.PP
보통 그 권한의 기본값은 쓰기 허용이다. 그러나, 여러가지 보안상 위험에 대해 민감해지고 있기 때문에
이러한 쓰기 권한을 기본적으로 허용하지 않으려는 경향이 있다. 원하는 설정을 tty에 적용하기 위하여
.B mesg
명령이 로그인 스크립트에서 실행되어야 한다.
.PP
가능한 옵션:
.TP
.B n
메시지를 차단한다.
.TP
.B y
메시지를 보이도록 허용한다.
.PP
인자가 주어지지 않을 경우,
.B mesg
명령은 현재 상태를 표준 오류 출력으로 보여준다.
.PP
.B mesg
명령은 다음과 같은 종료값을 가진다:
.TP
.I "\ 0"
메시지 허용.
.TP
.I "\ 1"
메시지 불허.
.TP
.I "\>1"
오류 발생.
.SH 파일
.I /dev/[pt]ty[pq]?
.SH "관련 항목"
.BR biff (1),
.BR talk (1),
.BR write (1),
.BR wall (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR xterm (1)
.SH 역사
.B mesg
명령은 버전 6 AT&T UNIX부터 쓰이고 있다.
.SH 번역
한글 Manpage 프로젝트 (http://man.kldp.org) 2004년 3월 29일
