.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)script.1	6.5 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"
.Dd July 27, 1991
.Dt SCRIPT 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm script
.Nd 터미날에서 발생하는 모든 세션을 기록한다.
.Sh 사용법
.Nm script
.Op Fl a
.Op Ar 파일
.Sh 설명
.Nm Script
명령은 터미날에서 보여지는 모든 내용을 파일에 기록한다. 
이것은 쉘에서의 사용자와 컴과의 작업 상태를 기록하고, 
그것을 다시 살펴 보아야할 경우에 아주 유용하게 쓰인다. 
또한 파이프 기능을 이용하여 다른 작업을 하고 있으면서 
이 기록 내용을 인쇄할 수도 있다.
.Pp
.Ar 파일
인자가 있으면, 그 파일에 모든 내용을 기록하고, 
없으면, 
.Pa typescript
파일에 기록한다.
.Pp
옵션:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
새로 기록하는 것이 아니라, 이미 있는 
.Ar file
에나,
.Pa typescript 
파일에 내용을 덧붙힌다.
.El
.Pp
\fBscript\fR를 마치기 위해서는 
쉘 종료를 호출하면 된다. (대게 exit, logout, ^D)
.Pp
.Xr vi 1
와 같은 터미날의 출력을 사용하는 풀그림의 사용도 
그대로 기록된다. 이때는 조금 지저분하게 보일 것이다.
.Nm script
명령은 현재 창, 화면에 대한 내용만 기록한다. 
즉, 한 터미날의 모든 출력을 그대로 기록한다.
.Sh 환경변수
다음은 \fBscript\fR에서 사용되는 환경변수들이다:
.Bl -tag -width SHELL
.It Ev SHELL
이 값이 지정되어 있으면, \fBscript\fR에서 사용할 쉘로 
이것을 사용하고, 지정되어 있지 않으면, /bin/sh로 가정한다.
.El
.Sh 관련 항목
.Xr csh 1
(사용내역(history) 처리 부분을 참조)
.Sh 발자취
.Nm script
명령은 
.Bx 3.0 
시스템에서 처음 나타났다.
.Sh 벌레
.Nm script
명령은 앞에서 말했듯이 터미날로 출력되는 모든 것을 
기록하기 때문에, 각종 특수문자(줄바꿈문자, 백스페이스, 안시..)들을
그대로 기록한다.
