.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ul.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.Dd June 6, 1993
.Dt UL 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm ul
.Nd 밑줄 처리
.Sh 사용법
.Nm ul
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl t Ar 터미날
.Op Ar 이름 Ar ...
.Sh 설명
.Nm Ul
명령은 
.I 이름
으로 지정한 파일을 읽어(또는 이것이 빠지면, 표준입력으로 읽어),
밑줄 속성을 가진 문자들은 밑줄 처리를 해서 터미날로 보여준다.
이때 터미날로 사용될 값은 
.Ev TERM
환경 변수값을 사용한다.
밑줄 처리 방법에 대한 지정은 
.Pa /etc/termcap
파일을 읽어 처리한다.
이때, 터미날이 밑줄 문자를 보여주지 못한다면, 
그냥 일반 문자로 보여준다.
.B ul
명령은 이런 밑줄 처리를 하고,
.Xr cat 1 
명령에 의해 보여준다.
.Pp
사용할 수 있는 옵션은 다음과 같다:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl i
밑줄 처리를 밑줄 속성 문자로 표시하지 않고, 그 문자가 있는 그 다음 줄에서
밀줄 문자(`\-')로 표시한다. 이 옵션은 밑줄 속성 문자를 
지원하지 못하는 터미날에서 유용하게 쓰인다.
.It Fl t Ar 터미날
환경변수 TERM 값을 무시하고 지정한 터미날을 사용한다.
.El
.Sh 환경변수
사용하는 환경변수는 다음과 같다:
.Bl -tag -width TERM
.It Ev TERM
이 값은 밑줄 처리를 해서 보여줄 터미날을 지정한다.
자세한 이야기는 
.Xr termcap 5 
파일의 매뉴얼 페이지를 참조한다.
이 값은 로그인 될 때 자동으로 지정되거나, 
.Pa /etc/ttys
파일에서 지정한 터니날 값이 사용된다.
.El
.Sh 관련 항목
.Xr man 1 ,
.Xr nroff 1 ,
.Xr colcrt 1
.Sh 벌레
.Xr Nroff
에서는 보통 밑줄 처리를 위해서 백스페이스 문자를 사용하는데, 
backward motion(?)을 최적화 하는 모드에는 영향을 주지 않는다.
.Sh 발자취
.Nm
명령은 
.Bx 3.0 
시스템에서 처음 나타났다.
