.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @(#)whereis.1 from UCB 4.2
.TH WHEREIS 1 "8 May 1994"
.SH 이름
whereis \- 명령의 실행 파일, 소스, 매뉴얼 페이지가 어디 있는지 보여준다.
.SH 사용법
.B whereis
[
.B \-bmsu
] [
.B \-BMS
.IR 경로 .\|.\|.
.B \-f
]
\fI파일이름\fP\|
\&.\|.\|.
.IX  "whereis command"  ""  "\fLwhereis\fP \(em find program"
.IX  find "program \(em \fLwhereis\fP"
.IX  "locate program"  ""   "locate program \(em \fLwhereis\fP"
.IX  command  locate  ""   "locate \(em \fLwhereis\fP"
.SH 설명
.B whereis
명령은 지정한 \fI파일이름\fR의 실행파일, 소스, 매뉴얼 페이지가
어디 있는지 알려준다.
지정할 \fI파일이름\fR에는 확장자가 사용될 수 있다. 이때, 
`.c', `.1' 이런 소스 파일과 매뉴얼 페이지 확장자가 사용될 수 있는데, 
이러면 특별히 지정하지 않으면 그 실행파일까지도 찾아준다.
이때
.B whereis
명령은 따로 특별히 찾을 경로를 지정하지 않으면,
다음 경로를 바탕으로 찾는다:
.IP
.nf
.ft B
/bin
/usr/bin
/etc
/usr/etc
/sbin
/usr/sbin
/usr/games
/usr/games/bin
/usr/emacs/etc
/usr/lib/emacs/19.22/etc
/usr/lib/emacs/19.23/etc
/usr/lib/emacs/19.24/etc
/usr/lib/emacs/19.25/etc
/usr/lib/emacs/19.26/etc
/usr/lib/emacs/19.27/etc
/usr/lib/emacs/19.28/etc
/usr/lib/emacs/19.29/etc
/usr/lib/emacs/19.30/etc
/usr/TeX/bin
/usr/tex/bin
/usr/interviews/bin/LINUX
/usr/bin/X11
/usr/X11/bin
/usr/X11R5/bin
/usr/X11R6/bin
/usr/X386/bin
/usr/local/bin
/usr/local/etc
/usr/local/sbin
/usr/local/games
/usr/local/games/bin
/usr/local/emacs/etc
/usr/local/TeX/bin
/usr/local/tex/bin
/usr/local/bin/X11

/usr/contrib",
/usr/hosts",
/usr/include",

/usr/g++-include",
.ft R
.fi
.SH 옵션
.TP
\fB\-b
실행 파일만 찾는다.
.TP
.B \-m
매뉴얼 페이지만 찾는다.
.TP
.B \-s
소스만 찾는다.
.TP
.B \-u
일반적이지 않은 항목을 위한 찾기. 
이 옵션은 일반적으로 특정 파일을 제외하는데 사용된다.
즉, 
.RB ` "whereis\ \ \-m\ \ \-u\ \ *" '
명령은 현재 경로에서 메뉴얼 페이지가 없는 파일을 조사한다.
.TP
.B \-B
실행 파일을 찾을 경로를 지정한다.
.TP
.B \-M
매뉴얼 페이지를 찾을 경로를 지정한다.
.TP
.B \-S
소스 파일을 찾을 경로를 지정한다.
.TP
.B \-f
경로 지정이 끝나고 다음에 오는 것은 찾을 파일 이름을 알리는 옵션이다.
이 옵션은
.BR \-B ,
.BR \-M ,
.B \-S
옵션들이 사용될 때에 사용해야 한다.
.SH 예제
.B /usr/bin
경로 안에 있지만,
.B /usr/man/man1
경로 안에 그 해당 매뉴얼이 없고,
.B /usr/src
경로 안에 그 해당 소스가 없는 
모든 파일을 찾는 예제는:
.IP
.nf
.ft B
example% cd /usr/bin
example% whereis \-u \-M /usr/man/man1 \-S /usr/src \-f *
.fi
.ft R
.SH "관련 파일"
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /{bin,sbin,etc}
.TP
.B /usr/{lib,bin,old,new,local,games,include,etc,src,man,sbin,
.B X386,TeX,g++-include}
.TP
.B /usr/local/{X386,TeX,X11,include,lib,man,etc,bin,games,
.B emacs}
.TP 0
.B 
.PD
.SH " "
.SH "관련 항목"
.BR chdir (2)
.SH 벌레
보다 빠르게 실행하기 위해 \fBwhereis\fR가 \fBchdir (2)\fR을 사용할 때, 
.BR \-M ,
.BR \-S ,
.B \-B
옵션의 인자로 지정하는 경로는 절대 경로여야한다. 
즉, 그 경로는  반드시 ` / '로 시작해야한다.

