.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)write.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" Modified for Linux, Sun Mar 12 10:21:01 1995, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.TH WRITE 1 "12 March 1995" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
write \- 다른 사용자에게 메시지를 보낸다.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI write " user " [ ttyname ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Write
명령은 
행단위로 다른 사용자와 의사소통을 할 수 있게 한다.
.PP
write 명령을 사용하면, 상대방의 화면에는 다음과 같은 
메세지가 나타난다.
.PP
.RS
Message from yourname@yourhost on yourtty at hh:mm ...
.RE
.PP
상대방이 어느 위치에 있건 간에 이 메시지는 나타난다.
상대방도 이 소식에 대한 답을 하기 위해서는 똑같이 
write 명령을 사용하면 된다.
.PP
write 명령을 끝내려면, 파일 끝문자(eof)나, 중지 문자를
입력한다. 이러면, 상대방 화면에는 EOF 글자가 나타나고,
더이상의 메시지 입력은 되지 않는다.
.PP
이 메시지 수신을 거부 하려면, mesg(1) 명령을 사용한다.
예를 들어,  nroff(1)와 pr(1)명령들도, 자동 수신 거부
기능을 제공하고 있다.
하지만, 슈퍼 유저의 메시지는 거부할 수 없다. 
.PP
만약, 이야기를 전할 사용자가 한번 이상 로그인하고 있는 
상태라면, 이야기를 전할 사용자의 터미날까지 지정해 
주어야한다. 이것은 사용자ID 다음에 공백문자를 두고 다음에 
지정한다.
.PP
누군가에게 전할 메시지의 통신 약자로 관례적으로 
`-O'를 줄의 맨 끝에 추가하거나, `-O'만 있는 줄로 
나타낸다. `OO'는 전할 소식이 끝났다는 기호로, 
write가 종료되기전에 사용되는 것이 관례이다.

(참고로 일반적인 write는 한글을 사용할 수 없다. - 옮긴이 말)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mesg (1),
.BR talk (1),
.BR who (1)
.SH HISTORY
A
.B write
command appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.
